India's JioCinema offers Hollywood streaming for a penny a day to box out Netflix and Prime Video | TechCrunch
Comment
JioCinema, the popular Indian on-demand video-streaming service, introduced a new monthly subscription plan on Wednesday, with the lowest tier costing just 35 cents. The revamp in the pricing strategy comes as the market-leading service seeks to exert greater pressure on rivals including Netflix and Prime Video and “redefine the narrative of premium entertainment.”
The service — backed by Asia’s richest man, Mukesh Ambani — introduced two monthly tiers: 89 Indian rupees ($1), featuring support for four simultaneous screen access, and Rs 29, with single-screen access. Apart from the simultaneous viewing, both tiers offer identical features, including an ad-free experience, as well as the ability to stream in 4K and download for offline viewing.
JioCinema Premium also includes access to everything else on the platform, which includes a vast library of content from Peacock, HBO, Paramount and Warner Bros. Discovery.
Ambani’s JioCinema secures NBCUniversal titles, escalates Netflix and Disney rivalry

JioCinema had launched an annual premium tier with the international catalog at Rs 999 last year. Viacom18, the parent firm of JioCinema, is discontinuing the earlier tier, and those who had subscribed to it will be automatically switched over to the new plan, according to the spokesperson.
Sports content, including the ongoing cricket tournament Indian Premier League, will remain free to stream, but with ads. (The premium tier will not remove ads from the live sports content.)
The revamp in the pricing follows Ambani’s Reliance — which owns the majority of Viacom18 — merging its media business with the local unit of Disney earlier this year. The joint venture, whose value has been pegged at $8.5 billion, stands to capture 85% of India’s on-demand streaming service audience and about half of the TV viewers, according to analysts. Disney operates the popular streaming service Hotstar in India and Southeast Asia.
JioCinema is also undercutting rivals Netflix and Prime Video with its new 35-cent premium tier, a fraction of their cheapest plans priced at $2.40 and $2.15, respectively, in India.
Reliance and Disney also agreed two years ago to spend about $6 billion on the five-year streaming and broadcasting rights of Indian Premier League. Though Viacom18 plans to continue to offer an ad-supported Indian Premier League streaming experience at no charge to consumers, it does plan to recover much of the investment it has made in the next three years.
“Creating and building an entertainment ecosystem with a product that is made for every Indian household, is not just a business strategy, but a vision to empower our country and users with an unmatched entertainment experience,” said Kiran Mani, CEO of Viacom18 Digital, in a statement. “JioCinema Premium aims to redefine the narrative of premium entertainment for every Indian while building a daily viewing habit.”
Disney’s Hotstar tops 50 million concurrent viewers in India-New Zealand cricket clash

Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage.
Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly.
The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Sunday.
TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight.
By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			
Welcome to Week in Review: TechCrunch’s newsletter recapping the week’s biggest news. This week Apple unveiled new iPad models at its Let Loose event, including a new 13-inch display for… 
The U.K. Safety Institute, the U.K.’s recently established AI safety body, has released a toolset designed to “strengthen AI safety” by making it easier for industry, research organizations and academia… 
AI startup Runway’s second annual AI Film Festival showcased movies that incorporated AI tech in some fashion, from backgrounds to animations. 
Rachel Coldicutt is the founder of Careful Industries, which researches the social impact technology has on society. 
SAP Chief Sustainability Officer Sophia Mendelsohn wants to incentivize companies to be green because it’s profitable, not just because it’s right. 
Here’s what one insider said happened in the days leading up to the layoffs. 
StrictlyVC events deliver exclusive insider content from the Silicon Valley & Global VC scene while creating meaningful connections over cocktails and canapés with leading investors, entrepreneurs and executives. And TechCrunch… 
Meesho, a leading e-commerce startup in India, has secured $275 million in a new funding round. 
Some Indian government websites have allowed scammers to plant advertisements capable of redirecting visitors to online betting platforms. TechCrunch discovered around four dozen “gov.in” website links associated with Indian states,… 
Around 550 employees across autonomous vehicle company Motional have been laid off, according to information taken from WARN notice filings and sources at the company.  Earlier this week, TechCrunch reported… 
The deck included some redacted numbers, but there was still enough data to get a good picture. 
The company is describing the event as “a chance to demo some ChatGPT and GPT-4 updates.” 
Unlike ChatGPT, Claude did not become a new App Store hit. 
Welcome to Startups Weekly — Haje‘s weekly recap of everything you can’t miss from the world of startups. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Friday. Look,… 
Scarcely five months after its founding, hard tech startup Layup Parts has landed a $9 million round of financing led by Founders Fund to transform composites manufacturing. Lux Capital and Haystack… 
AI startup Anthropic is changing its policies to allow minors to use its generative AI systems — in certain circumstances, at least.  Announced in a post on the company’s official… 
Zeekr’s market hype is noteworthy and may indicate that investors see value in the high-quality, low-price offerings of Chinese automakers. 
Venture capital has been hit hard by souring macroeconomic conditions over the past few years and it’s not yet clear how the market downturn affected VC fund performance. But recent… 
The person who claims to have 49 million Dell customer records told TechCrunch that he brute-forced an online company portal and scraped customer data, including physical addresses, directly from Dell’s… 
The social network has announced an updated version of its app that lets you offer feedback about its algorithmic feed so you can better customize it. 
Microsoft will launch its own mobile game store in July, the company announced at the Bloomberg Technology Summit on Thursday. Xbox president Sarah Bond shared that the company plans to… 
Smart ring maker Oura is launching two new features focused on heart health, the company announced on Friday. The first claims to help users get an idea of their cardiovascular… 
Keeping up with an industry as fast-moving as AI is a tall order. So until an AI can do it for you, here’s a handy roundup of recent stories in the world… 
Garena is quietly developing new India-themed games even though Free Fire, its biggest title, has still not made a comeback to the country. 
The U.S.’ NHTSA has opened a fourth investigation into the Fisker Ocean SUV, spurred by multiple claims of “inadvertent Automatic Emergency Braking.” 
CoreWeave has formally opened an office in London that will serve as its European headquarters and home to two new data centers. 
The Series C funding, which brings its total raise to around $95 million, will go toward mass production of the startup’s inaugural products 
A dust-up between Evolve Bank & Trust, Mercury and Synapse has led TabaPay to abandon its acquisition plans of troubled banking-as-a-service startup Synapse. 
The problem is not the media, but the message. 
The Twitter for Android client was “a demo app that Google had created and gave to us,” says Particle co-founder and ex-Twitter employee Sara Beykpour. 
Facebook
Youtube
LinkedIn
X
Instagram
Mastodon
Powered by WordPress VIP
