JioCinema slashes subscription prices for premium content, IPL continues to be available for free
My Account
Follow us on:
Powered By 
Unlock Your Trading Potential: Trade like Experts with SEBI registered creators, Learn from Courses & Webinars by India's Finest Finance Experts.
Invest Now
JioCinema has cut prices for its premium content, including Hollywood movies and TV shows, with subscription plans starting at Rs 29 a month, the streaming arm of broadcaster Viacom18 said on April 25.
The over-the-top (OTT) platform cut the price by two-thirds, as the earlier subscription priced these offerings at Rs 99 a month, or Rs 999 a year, for streaming on up to four devices simultaneously. The plan was not ad-free.
“With 4K streaming, best-in-class audio, offline viewing and no device restriction all at a customer-centric pricing is sure to democratise access to quality entertainment for all of India,” Viacom18 Digital CEO Kiran Mani said.
It includes online and offline viewing in 4K quality for foreign movies, TV series and kids programming on any device in five languages.
The plans, effective immediately, offer ad-free content and access to exclusive series, movies, Hollywood, kids and TV entertainment on any device, including connected TVs, the company has said.
The platform also has a “family plan” at Rs 89 a month, with an additional benefit of four simultaneous screen access.
Existing JioCinema premium members can avail additional benefits of the “family plan” at no extra cost.
Sports content, including the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) and thousands of hours of entertainment content, will continue to be available for free as part of the platform's ad-supported offering.
The platform offers its premium members access to the biggest global series and movie premieres from Hollywood through partnerships with the world’s biggest studios - Peacock, HBO, Paramount and Warner Bros Discovery.
Top titles such as Game Of Thrones, House Of The Dragon, Oppenheimer, Barbie and several more will now also be available in Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Bengali and Marathi.
Last year, Viacom18 Media and Warner Bros Discovery Inc signed a multi-year pact to stream the American firm’s exclusive content in India, including the hugely popular Succession and The Last of Us.
Members will also get early access to content from TV channel Colors, Nickelodeon and the entire Colors suite of local language channels, with serials being made available to them even before they air on television. In addition, more than 20 Viacom18 Network TV channels will be available for streaming.
Disclosure: Moneycontrol is a part of the Network18 group. Network18 is controlled by Independent Media Trust, of which Reliance Industries is the sole beneficiary. 

DAILY-EVENING
DAILY-EVENING
            Discover the latest business news, Sensex, and Nifty updates. Obtain Personal Finance insights, tax queries, and expert opinions on Moneycontrol or download the Moneycontrol App to stay updated!
      
 Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited.
You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.
Access your Detailed Credit Report - absolutely free
