JioCinema’s $2.7B gamble to stream IPL for free has advertisers worried - The Ken
Explore
Sign In

Search

stories
newsletters
podcasts
countries


Ed Set Go
Find out about the biggest shifts in education
Trade Tricks
Tracking the biggest shifts in e-commerce, retails and FMCG
Green Margins
Climate change's impact on business, tech and politics
Ka-Ching!
Fintech and personal finance in a way that's interesting and useful
Inciting Incident
Decoding narratives by leaders, businesses, and governments
The Nutgraf
Understand business in India in a way you’ll never forget
First Principles
Original insights on leadership from India’s most disruptive entrepreneurs
First Principles
Interviews with India’s business leaders & change makers.
Daybreak
Business stories that are significant, simple and powerful
The First Two Years 
Answers to the most important questions about learning to succeed at work
Popular searches
No results found for .

Byjus
Amazon
Reliance
Instagram
Nykaa
Shopee
Jio
Dunzo
Softbank
Uber
Flipkart
Ola
Google
GoJek
Swiggy
Zomato
Netflix
Bharti Airtel
Apple
Razorpay
Facebook
Phonepe
Grab
Hotstar
Paytm
Tiger Global
SEBI
WhatsApp
TRAI
RBI
Sequoia Capital
Tata
Amazon Prime
Cred
Reliance Industries
Microsoft
Youtube
Unacademy
Bigbasket
Niti Aayog
HDFC Bank
Xiaomi
ICICI Bank
Walmart
NPCI
Reliance Jio
Pharmeasy
Startups
Fintech
Financial services
Saas
Careers
Food delivery
E-commerce
Retail
FMCG
Venture Capital
Public policy
Mobility
Climate
B2B
OTT
Media
Education
Healthcare
Big tech
Manufacturing
Smartphones
Reliance Industries-backed JioCinema is set to host what may be the country’s largest streaming event ever. But advertisers worry about Jio’s technical chops and their return on investment 


15 Mar 2023  /  15 min  read

Soumyajit covers the operations of Big Tech companies and OTTs in India.
With the next season of the Indian Premier League (IPL) just two weeks away, the first-time streaming host JioCinema is pulling out all the stops. 
A little-known app until late November 2022, JioCinema suddenly came into the spotlight when it decided to telecast the FIFA World Cup in India for free. It is one of two streaming apps run by media company Viacom18, a joint venture between telecom behemoth Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd and American media giant Paramount Global.  
However, with viewers totalling ~110 million, the 2022 FIFA World Cup was just a warm-up. By streaming the annual T20 franchise cricket league—known for its record-breaking live-streaming events—for free, the app is now expected to host ~550 million users versus the ~300 million hosted in 2022, according to eight senior advertising and brand-marketing executives who are in talks with the firm to advertise during the tournament. 
And the expected spurt has set the advertising ecosystem abuzz, people in the industry said. “A strong FOMO (fear of missing out) is pushing advertiser interest, even though they’re not very sure of what they will get for their bucks this year,” a senior marketing executive at a national consumer products firm said, declining to be identified.
Advertising executives believe that this season, digital-ad spending is unlikely to hit Viacom18’s 
reported


reported

ET Brand Equity
Viacom18 aiming for ad revenues worth Rs 3700 crore from IPL 2023
Read more





reported 


ET Brand Equity
Viacom18 aiming for ad revenues worth Rs 3700 crore from IPL 2023


 internal target of Rs 3,700 crore (~US$449 million). It will also not exceed the TV-advertising spends, which are expected to be “slightly higher” than the Rs 3,500 crore (~US$425 million) spent in the previous editions. But it is likely to be much higher than the Rs 1,500 crore (~US$182 million) brands spent in digital advertising in 2022, the executives added.
All senior advertising, OTT, and brand-marketing executives who participated in this story declined to be identified as they either did not want to jeopardise long-standing ties with Viacom18 or were not allowed to comment publicly.
Viacom18’s decision to stream the IPL for free shook the Indian OTT space to the core, given it had 
spent


spent

India Today
Viacom18 wins IPL digital rights for Rs 23,758 crore, Disney Star retains TV for Rs 23,575 crore for 2023-27
Read more





spent 


India Today
Viacom18 wins IPL digital rights for Rs 23,758 crore, Disney Star retains TV for Rs 23,575 crore for 2023-27


 a massive Rs 23,758 crore (~US$2.9 billion) in 2022 to buy the digital rights to the game for the five years ending 2027. 
This was a tad bit more than the Rs 23, 575 crore (~US$2.8 billion) OTT-streaming service Disney+Hotstar paid for the television rights for the same period, and even higher than the total Rs 16,348 crore (~US$2 billion) Disney+Hotstar paid for the combined digital and television rights for the period between 2018 and 2022. 
Traditionally, the IPL has been a great subscriber-acquisition vehicle—long considered the holy grail in the OTT business. It laid the foundation for Disney+Hotstar’s OTT supremacy in India; with ~50 million subscribers, it is twice as large as its nearest rival, Amazon Prime.
With a free-to-watch IPL, Viacom18 has turned that proposition on its head. Now, conventional wisdom dictates that this is a huge opportunity for digital advertisers. But, there is a twist.
While the widened viewership is attracting a number of consumer brands, such as bottled-water brand Bisleri and tyre-manufacturing company CEAT, last year’s big-spending startups still appear uninterested in this edition.
That said, the majority of advertising deals are still in progress, senior executives involved in 
media buying


media buying

Media Buying
Media buying refers to the procurement of advertising space on mediums such as a television, newspapers, commercial radio, magazines, websites, mobile apps, over-the-top media services, out-of-home advertising etc.





media buying 


Media Buying
Media buying refers to the procurement of advertising space on mediums such as a television, newspapers, commercial radio, magazines, websites, mobile apps, over-the-top media services, out-of-home advertising etc.


 for brands told The Ken. But that’s not unusual during the IPL. 
What is unusual is, according to the senior advertising executives, the number of unknowns—including challenges in estimating advertising return on investment, whether Viacom18’s technology can guarantee a seamless telecast, and if the targeted new audience will have enough reasons to switch from TV to digital streaming.
This year, viewers from tier-2 and -3 cities are expected to drive the expansion of the IPL’s online streaming, said advertisers and rival OTT executives alike. This is in addition to urban users who could not afford a subscription in 2022.
This has piqued various traditional consumer brands’ interest, ranging from paint manufacturer Nippon Paint to PVC pipe maker Astral Pipes to Bisleri, a senior executive at a creative agency told The Ken.
Meanwhile, startups that 
contributed


contributed

Business Standard
Funding winter hits start-up advertising spend across properties
Read more





contributed 


Business Standard
Funding winter hits start-up advertising spend across properties


 ~13% to India’s ad revenues in 2021 are expected to slink into the background. A number of them, such as edtech Unacademy, e-commerce firm Meesho, and fintech Slice, are expected to go for smaller deals—if not stay away from advertising altogether, three senior advertising agency executives said. 
All in all, the executives expect the total number of digital advertisers to more than double, at the very least, from the ~100 brands in 2022. Plus, associate sponsorship deals will get costlier for brands as Viacom18 has raised its asking price—due to the likely surge in viewership. “While associate sponsorships would [usually] start at ~Rs 35 crore (~US$4 million), Viacom18 is setting the base price close to ~Rs 50 crore (~US$6 million) this year, though most deals are yet to be finalised,” a senior media planning executive told The Ken.
The number of impressions in this edition of the IPL is expected to at least quadruple as the viewership rises, a senior executive at a large advertising firm told The Ken. “Say a hundred people watch a 60-second ad interval during the IPL. If we break the interval into two 30-second ads, you have double the impressions, i.e. 200 impressions available,” the executive said. With the rise in viewership and changes in the way ad inventory is divided, the number of impressions available can increase exponentially, they added.
As a result of the increase in impressions supply, the 
cost per mile


cost per mile

Cost Per Mile (CPM)
Cost per mille, also called cost per thousand, is a commonly-used measurement, indicating the cost an advertiser pays for one thousand views or impressions of an advertisement





cost per mile 


Cost Per Mile (CPM)
Cost per mille, also called cost per thousand, is a commonly-used measurement, indicating the cost an advertiser pays for one thousand views or impressions of an advertisement


 (CPM) metric in this IPL season has fallen to ~Rs 180–200 (US$2–2.5) from ~Rs 220–250 (US$2.6–3) the year before, the senior media planning executive quoted earlier said. That means brands can strike smaller deals costing as little as Rs 10 crore this year, against the minimum of ~Rs 20 crore in 2021, said another senior executive at a large advertising agency. 
But even as a drop in CPM makes advertising more affordable, it could be indicative of a different problem.
Going with all guns blazing, but where?   
This flooding volume of ad inventory and amount of impressions might actually hurt a brand’s ‘
share of voice


share of voice

Share of Voice
SOV can be roughly defined as the share of impressions you buy in a slot- for instance if you buy 20 impressions in an ad slot with 200 impressions available, your SOV would be roughly 10%





share of voice 


Share of Voice
SOV can be roughly defined as the share of impressions you buy in a slot- for instance if you buy 20 impressions in an ad slot with 200 impressions available, your SOV would be roughly 10%


’ (SOV)—a measure of visibility for a brand in an advertising slot.
“In a typical IPL match, you would require at least 20-25 million impressions to move the needle with respect to brand recall and impact. But in a high-viewership match—say the India–Pakistan World Cup knockout—you may require as much as 100 million impressions to get a meaningful SOV, given the total pool of impressions goes up in that much,” the senior advertising executive added. 
Since Hotstar had been hosting the franchise for years and had not seen any outlandish increase in viewership, media planners and other advertising executives had a fair idea of the kind of investments required to get their share of SOV. This year, however, there is no way to determine that, given Viacom18 is not only a first-timer in hosting IPL, but is also onboarding an undefined chunk of new users whose watching behaviour is also unknown.
Now, OTT firms rarely give out overall SOV numbers, instead come out with data in terms of sector competition. “So, Hotstar would say that 20-25 million impressions could get you an SOV of, say, 15-30% when compared with your sector competitors. But on an overall basis, our calculations suggest it would get you just 2-5% of the total SOV,” the senior advertising executive quoted above further added.
The executive estimates a brand would have to buy at least four to six times as many impressions compared to last year’s IPL edition to reach a bare minimum SOV, i.e. as many as 80-120 million impressions.
Advertising and brand executives added that Viacom18 was only giving them overall reach and inventory estimates, and not talking about SOV as that would make selling deals harder.
“We are flying blind… there is a lot riding on accurate guesstimations in this IPL edition and not even the best experts are able to say for sure how this is going to pan out,” the senior media planner quoted earlier in the story said. 
“We have decided to trust Jio and go ahead with the risk… but that has meant internalising and hiding a lot of the anxiety from our clients”
Senior media planning executive
“We have decided to trust Jio and go ahead with the risk… but that has meant internalising and hiding a lot of the anxiety from our clients”
Senior media planning executive
Now, the IPL has always been a congested property, but the senior advertising executive quoted earlier said that many brands may feel disappointed by the returns on their investments in IPL 2023, especially the ones making small- to mid-sized investments, as the “ocean of impressions” drown their slots. “They will likely come back next year with learnings and more realistic expectations for their investments,” the executive added.
Advertisers also believe a lot rests on Viacom18’s ability to wean viewers away from their television sets this IPL season. After all, JioCinema has introduced a number of perks, such as quick highlights, multi-camera views, and 4K-resolution streaming, to win the long-drawn battle.     
But advertising and rival OTT executives also point to the fact that the majority of Jio’s telecom subscribers are prepaid customers and, therefore, have a limited amount of daily data to spend on the matches. This rules out the customers’ chances of using features such as higher-resolution streaming. Even with lower resolutions, they would end up using their entire daily data limits of 1.5-2 GBs to watch a full match lasting 3 hours.
This could end up in two ways, the executives contend. One, users could top up their internet plans to stream the matches on their devices, thereby boosting the businesses of telecom operators. Two, they could simply watch the matches on television if the service is bad; viewers will likely get access to the Star Sports channels as part of a cheaper, bundled offering from the likes of direct-to-home broadcasting-service provider Tata Play. 
There is also a third, middle-ground scenario. Here, viewers—especially the new ones—from tier-2 towns and beyond, decide to only tune in to the streaming platform for short periods of time so as not to exhaust their data-consumption limits. But this has also got some advertisers worried.

“If the viewership is not sticky, brands just won’t be able to make a difference in terms of brand recall… We need a bit of a captive audience to really work our magic… if it is a fickle audience then there won’t be a translation into consumer metrics,” the marketing head of a consumer brand that opted out of investing in this IPL season said. The firm had earlier invested in a number of editions in both television- and digital-ad formats.
This will also mean great shifts in data loads and scaling during the matches—throwing considerable engineering challenges.

Advertising executives estimate concurrent viewership could roughly triple from ~10 million in the last season.
Jio has been closely working with its content delivery network (CDN) partners—the likes of Akamai Technologies—as well as with telecom rivals, such as Bharti Airtel and BSNL, to boost its hosting capacity for the tournament, according to two senior executives in the CDN ecosystem.
To prepare, both the CDN as well as telecom partners will need to improve and reinforce their hardware. And to that end, Jio and Viacom18 are working at a never-before-seen scale, they said.
“With Hotstar, the scale-up had happened gradually, and by the end of the licence term, they had really good data to prepare themselves for the tournaments. Though the likes of Akamai are bringing the learnings from their experience with Hotstar, this scale of experimentation is unheard of in Indian OTT [space],” said an executive at a content-delivery Saas firm.
But not everything is in Viacom’s control. “I expect tier-3 towns, say Nagpur and Ahmednagar [in Maharashtra], to see their networks undergo tremendous pressures, given the population there is tech-savvy enough to want to move to streaming en-masse, but at the same time reliant on larger network nodes in, say, Pune and Mumbai for the delivery of content,” said a senior executive at a core CDN firm.
And if the internet service providers (ISPs) are ready to take on the challenge–or rather opportunity—is yet to be seen. “I hope the ISPs like Vodafone Idea and BSNL (other than Jio) are aware of what kind of pressures their systems are going to go through—I expect as much as half of the country’s consumer-internet bandwidth to be assigned into streaming the IPL during popular matches,” they added.
Consequently, the success or failure of these systems will directly affect advertiser confidence in JioCinema; though the advertisers believe Jio had learnt from the 
gaffes


gaffes

The Signal
JioCinema fails the FIFA World Cup test. Next up: IPL
Read more





gaffes 


The Signal
JioCinema fails the FIFA World Cup test. Next up: IPL


 it had made when it began streaming 2022 FIFA World Cup, which, again, was done for free. 
So, what is all this uncertainty leading to? Well, long debates—over the shapes of the deals brands are making with Viacom18, as they try to get a concrete idea of the returns on their investment. There are also concerns surrounding spending a large chunk of the year’s advertising budget on the IPL, given a cricket World Cup is slated to take place in India later this year, almost concurrently with the Diwali season—when consumer activity is at its highest in the year.
But that doesn’t take away all the enthusiasm the franchise has been increasingly able to garner.
Advertising executives concur that total digital-ad expenditure for this year’s IPL will definitely cross last year’s ~Rs 1,500 crore (~US$182 million), with some expecting it to even double. They also expect 70-75% of all digital-ad inventories to be sold, as opposed to 100% of the television inventories expected to get sold. 
“At the end of the day, there aren’t any franchises that are comparable to the IPL; not even the World Cup, where advertisers rely on India making it to the final stages of the tournament to maximise returns… In sectors where there is a duopoly or three major players, say, in food delivery or fantasy sports, the cost of staying away may be much, much higher than of not getting returns worth your investments,” the marketing head quoted earlier in the story said.
Written by
Soumyajit Saha 
Share this article with your network
Send the article link to friends or colleagues who might find this story interesting or insightful.

Send the article link to friends or colleagues who might find this story interesting or insightful.
Share this article with your network
Send the article link to friends or colleagues who might find this story interesting or insightful.

Send the article link to friends or colleagues who might find this story interesting or insightful.
Screenshots of Uber's in-app safety centre
Those were the words of a rival fintech about Phonepe’s barely-year-old payment aggregator. Why has it got some in the industry worried?
Phonepe and Google Pay account for nearly 85% of UPI payments. This was inadvertent. Now it’s likely perpetual
Asking good questions is both an art and a muscle
It doesn’t matter whether Krutrim is valued at a billion dollars or whether it performs better than Open AI in Indic languages. Krutrim gives Ola the ability to do two things—create a narrative and get into related party transactions

India's quick-commerce firms, including Zepto, are combining Amazon's packaging efficiency and the delivery speed of Domino's to make its experiments viable
Even as Indonesia basks on huge foreign tech investments, a Canadian gold-mining company is mulling international arbitration, underscoring the island nation’s protective FDI policy
Once IPO-bound and valued at over US$5 billion, the healthtech is now a tale of dubious business practices

Great research and story.
While it's easy to research an online platform, is the experience any different offline? How many times has your neighborhood chemist refused to serve you because you didn't have a prescription?  // By Srikanth Rajagopalan , CEO, Me, Inc.

My Pharmeasy and Healthians experience has been so awful that I've sworn off online medicine delivery altogether. I don't like being push sold things, but when you're push selling me medications, you'll lose my trust instantly.  // By Puranjay Singh 

I was approached in 2016 to start their CA teaching business as I was doing CA coachings that time. The way the entire onboarding was dealt with gave me a clear sign of what lies ahead and hence we didn’t progress much.  // By Vaibhav Jain , VP - Finance

Munjal has changed to whole offline thing is not going to show wonders suddenly.
The competitors are many, to develop trust is tough.  // By Tanya Singh 

Excellent article. I have stopped ordering on Pharmeasy when I noticed the trend of recommending other generics & supplement was becoming a norm than exception. My neighbourhood pharmacy gives me a 5-10% discount on MRP & is happy to drop orders over certain threshold for free at home.  // By Seemant Shrivastav , corporate finance advisor, Mumbai

Fractal, Latentview, Tredence, and Mu Sigma, which altogether employ over 12,000 people, are rapidly rejigging as intelligence becomes available on tap
Unacademy changes its own DNA for its offline centres to do well to survive the edtech downturn

The payments body made digital payments a household thing. But striking another UPI-like golden idea is far from simple
With crore-plus salaries, jobs at high-frequency-trading firms attract the cream of the crop at IITs. But only a few graduates make the cut
In the wake of the economic slowdown, there is a talent problem brewing at the “Big 3” strategy consulting firms

Founders and CXOs are paying ghostwriters big bucks to build their personal brand on the professional-networking site. But the world of anonymity comes with its own set of challenges

Retail, e-commerce, D2C
Education
Climate tech, education
Financial services, tech policy
And that it’s also taking its nimble rivals in cosmetics seriously
The retailer is scripting a turnaround for Reebok, much like Metro Brands is doing for Fila
That’s more trouble for Jiomart than anyone else
Wealth, capital markets
Financial services, venture capital
Deep tech, AI/ML, Web3, general China / SE Asia
Climate tech, telecom
Retail, capital markets
Meenal started her journalism career in 2015. She 
Jonathan is Newsletter Editor at The Ken, prior to
Anushka is a tech law and policy enthusiast. She 
Gaurav covers fintech and financial services from 
Finance, banking, fintech, general Philippines
Wealth, capital markets
Deep tech, AI/ML, Web3, general China / SE Asia
Education
Artifical intelligence, information technology
Retail, e-commerce, D2C
Financial services, venture capital
Abhijith comes with a diverse newsroom experience 
Aayush covers businesses that are primarily Intern
Isa likes consumer-facing topics like food and pow
© 2024 Kenrise Media Private Limited. all rights reserved
By continuing, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy
We've sent a 6-digit code to  
Please enter it below to unlock your account and start reading.

Resend
 00:00
Having trouble logging in to your account?Write to us at [email protected]. We'll check and revert.


Enter your password and start reading now



You can also continue with OTP
The 'login via password' option will be discontinued soon
Did you know? You don't need to enter OTP everytime on our app. Install now by scanning the QR code below 
Did you know? You don't need to enter OTP everytime on our app.
Click here to try again
Unlike desktop browsers, you don't need an OTP every time you want to access our app. Install now by scanning the QR code below 
Unlike desktop browsers, you don't need an OTP every time you want to access our app. Install now.

We allow only two web login sessions (desktop browser or mobile browser) per subscriber, and you have reached your maximum session limit. If you click continue, we will log you out from the other logged-in windows.


“There's no greater gift than thinking that you had some impact on the world, for the better.” – Gloria Steinem



We allow only two web login sessions (desktop browser or mobile browser) per subscriber, and you have reached your maximum session limit. If you click continue, we will log you out from the other logged-in windows.

Account successfully created
