
Jio Cinema to Debut Original Content with Jio Studios: 100 Upcoming Titles List | DesiDime

Jio Cinema is soon going to launch original OTT content on its platform with Jio Studios which recently announced 100 upcoming content titles. The Reliance-owned OTT service has been creating a buzz in the OTT & Streaming space by first streaming IPL 2023 for free, and then bringing movies like Bhediya and Vikram Vedha on Jio Cinema. Until now, Jio Cinema mainly used to stream old Indian movies, TV shows, sports, etc. However, with Jio Studios now focusing on growing the value chain of the business, JioCinema may soon become a more popular OTT Service in India, likely to go behind a paywall in the future (as per reports). 


So, here are all the details about JioCinema's original content debut and the upcoming movies, and web series, and shows on Jio Cinema with Jio Studios. 


Jio Cinema Orignal Content debut will soon be showcased as Jio-owned film distributor, Jio Studios has announced to bring 100 upcoming web series, shows, and movie titles on Jio Cinema. These upcoming movie titles on Jio Cinema are as follows:

Jio Studios is a film distribution company that was set up in 2018 and so far has made 50 films and movies. Speaking on the Jio Studios Slate announcement, Jyoti Deshpande, President of Reliance Media and Content Business spoke about empowering storytellers and democratizing content for Indians. 


She also went ahead to add the following:
“What we are seeing out there is a lot of Westernised content. Our idea is to have premium content that the Sobo (South Mumbai) audience is as comfortable watching as a person watching it in Kanpur. We want to make content inclusive and accessible. The idea is to make in India and show it to the world”
Jio Studio has now announced 100 upcoming titles on Jio Cinema which feature some of the top talents of the entertainment industry such as Vicky Kaushal, Amitabh Bachchan, Sara Ali Khan, Shahid Kapoor, and Shahrukh Khan among others. 

Find below the list of upcoming movies on Jio Cinema:
Dunki - featuring Shah Rukh Khan.
Bhediya 2 - with Varun Dhawan.
Bloody Daddy - featuring Shahid Kapoor.
Hisaab Barabar - led by R. Madhavan.
Blackout - with Vikrant Massey and Mouni Roy.
Empire - starring Taapsee Pannu and Arvind Swamy.
Mumbaikar - featuring Vijay Sethupathi.
Laal Batti - a political thriller helmed by Prakash Jha.
Inspector Avinash - featuring Randeep Hooda.
Ishq Next Door - featuring Abhay Mahajan and Natasha Bharadwaj.
Do Gubbare - with Mohan Agashe and Siddharth Shaw.
Hajamat - with Sanjay Mishra and Anshumaan Pushkar
Section 84: featuring Amitabh Bachchan 
Aadhar - featuring Vineet Kumar Singh, Saurabh Shukla, and Raghubir Yadav
Zara Hatke, Zara Bachke - featuring Vicky Kaushal and Sara Ali Khan

Baipan Bhari Deva - featuring veteran actor Rohini Hattangadi.
Khashaba - with Nagraj Manjule.
Aga Aai Aho Aai - featuring Renuka Shahane and Hruta Durgule, among others.

Be sure to also check out our article on the: List of Free OTT Platforms in India (Binge-watch Free Movies & more)

While the list of upcoming Bengali movies and series on Jio Cinema isn’t as clear yet, Jio Studios is also entering into a multi-year, multi-film collaboration with SVF Entertainment. As per reports, the upcoming movies and series will feature top artists like Mithun Chakraborty, Prosenjit Chatterjee, and Jisshu Sengupta, among others.

Bachubhai - featuring veteran actor Siddharth Randeria.
Ghulam Chor - with popular actor Malhar Thakkar.


1. Is Jio Cinema free to watch? 
Jio Cinema is free for all users regardless of their network. The service was made free in the year 2022.

2. What comes in Jio Cinema? what can we watch?
Jio Cinema has a vast content library of popular TV shows, movies, documentaries, web series, sports, and music videos.

3. How do I watch new movies on Jio Cinema?
To watch new movies on Jio Cinema, visit https://www.jiocinema.com/...es and watch your favourite latest movies on Jio Cinema for free

4. Is Jio Cinema for TV?
You can stream content from Jio Cinema on your smart TV or monitor by downloading the Jio Cinema app or through web browser. Check out this article on How to Convert your normal TV to Smart TV (6 methods)

5. What is Jio Studios Slate?
Jio Studios recently announced a content slate of 100 upcoming movies on Jio Cinema. The company says it has taken them 3 years to complete these 100 movies and shows and the film distributor company would be launching these 100 upcoming movies on Jio Cinema from May 2023 


So, this was all about sharing the exciting news of Jio Cinema to debut Orignal Content soon with Jio Studios' massive content slate of 100 upcoming movie titles. 
Jio is also currently streaming the IPL 2023 for free on Jio Cinema which is paid on the Disney+ Hotstar platform. For the same reason, Airtel is seeking TRAI intervention while Jio dismisses Airtel’s claims. 
Let's see how many years it takes for these 100
Waiting For Bloody Daddy 
Shahid looking Badass in First Look Poster
Any idea when its launching?
I think it would be paid all of this movies have a decent budget giving them for free will burn lots of money but then again they are providing IPL for free same can be done for this movies
So soon we will have many more excellent series like Panchayat, Sacred Games, etc. Nice
Nice info 👍🏼
VU 
Waiting for Section 84. 
Wating for this
NYC post
I hope they'll bring some good animated content too .
Netflix have loads of animated content 
About us and Legal Stuff
Partnerships
 Disclosure
Follow Us On
Disclaimer: DesiDime helps you find the best deals and is community supported. Links on our site are monetised, it means we can keep our platform free to use, without compromising on impartiality. The popularity of every offer, deal and coupon is determined by the community. Read More...
© 2010 - 2024. Parity Cube Pvt Ltd
Home / Others / Jio Cinema to Debut Original Content with Jio Studios: 100 Upcoming Titles List

Baipan Bhari Deva - featuring veteran actor Rohini Hattangadi.
Khashaba - with Nagraj Manjule.
Aga Aai Aho Aai - featuring Renuka Shahane and Hruta Durgule, among others.


Bachubhai - featuring veteran actor Siddharth Randeria.
Ghulam Chor - with popular actor Malhar Thakkar.

