How did Jio Cinema's penetration jump 4X on the back of free IPL streaming?

                Agree & Join LinkedIn
              

      By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
    

                  Create your free account or sign in to continue your search
                



              or
            

      By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
    

                New to LinkedIn? Join now


                    or
                  

      By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
    

                New to LinkedIn? Join now

#indianpremierleague is one of the biggest sports events India has ever witnessed since its beginning in 2007. The battle to get the #live broadcasting of this mega event creates competition among giants, like Disney+ Hotstar, Viacom18, Sony, and Zee Entertainment Enterprises Limited to make it monopoly free.
The broadcasting rights of #ipl2023 bidding went into two hands; Viacom 18 for digital rights and Disney+ Hotstar for television rights. These two brands hold millions of #cricket fans globally who experienced IPL matches at their ease.
The investment worth 44,075 crores were made with strategic decisions and analysis, where Viacom18 was among the winners and bagged the digital rights of IPL 2023-2027 for 20,500 crores.
Here, I'm going to break down the marketing practices done by Reliance-backed Viacom 18 for the IPL 2023 broadcasted for free on Jio Cinema.
Jio Cinema's penetration has grown by almost 4X to 40.26% with 32 Million viewers on the back of free streaming of the IPL 2023.
Here's the breakdown of Reliance Jio's strategy for IPL 2023.
Viacom18 Media Private Limited-owned streaming platform Jio Cinema's penetration has grown by almost 4X to 40.26% on the back of free streaming of the Indian Premier League India (IPL), says research.
The research also highlighted that the platform has seen a surge in downloads, with the proportion of new installs at approximately 72% during IPL 2023 compared to 28% before the IPL season.
1. Planning
The strategic audience analysis, including their tastes & preferences. In this context, the Indian audience is a hub of cricket lovers, and delivering free live #streaming of IPL has proved to be a game changer.
2. Know your audience
The premium watch of IPL at Disney+ Hotstar gave Reliance Jio a competitive edge where a vast audience base was left with no choice but to select another platform to watch IPL matches. Hence, the Jio Cinema application was an easy catch for cricket lovers across the globe to experience the live broadcasting of the matches.
3. Think out of the box
Disney+ Hotstar already had record-breaking viewership back in 2019 with more than 25.3 million viewership. Bagging the winner's list Reliance-backed Viacom18 gathered the attention of users who have no premium #subscription to Hotstar, and that number later become 32 million, breaking Disney+ Hoststar's record.
4. Keep an eye on competitors
The eyebrows rise when brands deliver unexpected solutions that are liked by millions. Though, it was cricket that gathered crores of fans from around the globe at Jio Cinema because of its free IPL streaming.++
5. Play smart
Reliance Jio, back in 2016 also pitched the audience well with free Jio sim & internet connectivity. Similarly, in 2023 Free streaming reached millions and gave tough competition to Disney+ Hostsar.
Every brand that has a service or product offering must analyze how to pitch the audience the right way, and the result would be exponential.
Help improve contributions
Mark contributions as unhelpful if you find them irrelevant or not valuable to the article. This feedback is private to you and won’t be shared publicly.
Contribution hidden for you
This feedback is never shared publicly, we’ll use it to show better contributions to everyone.
"Experienced Administrative Executive | Streamlining Operations & Enhancing Efficiency | Driving Organizational Excellence @ Squadstack"
OTT war is on and Jio will surely become a major player in this. Hotstar has recently lost HBO too. The last important thing for subscribers was Cricket and they have lost it too. Now the only thing left is Daily Soaps.

On the other hand, Netflix is more of a premium OTT. The content there is vast and many Originals are just amazing. However, to gain more subscribers in India, it will need to lower the rates further. For now, 1000-1200 per year is what people are ready to pay for OTT subscriptions.

Let's see how this battle goes on. 

        To view or add a comment, sign in


