Comcast has agreed to sell its stake in Hulu in 5 years
Credit Cards
Loans
Banking
Mortgages
Insurance
Credit Monitoring
Personal Finance
Small Business
Taxes
Help for Low Credit Scores
Investing
SELECT
All Credit Cards
Find the Credit Card for You
Best Credit Cards
Best Rewards Credit Cards
Best Travel Credit Cards
Best 0% APR Credit Cards
Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Best Cash Back Credit Cards
Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses
Best Credit Cards to Build Credit
SELECT
All Loans
Find the Best Personal Loan for You
Best Personal Loans
Best Debt Consolidation Loans
Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt
Best Loans with Fast Funding
Best Small Personal Loans
Best Large Personal Loans
Best Personal Loans to Apply Online
Best Student Loan Refinance
SELECT
All Banking
Find the Savings Account for You
Best High Yield Savings Accounts
Best Big Bank Savings Accounts
Best Big Bank Checking Accounts
Best No Fee Checking Accounts
No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts
Best Checking Account Bonuses
Best Money Market Accounts
Best CDs
Best Credit Unions
SELECT
All Mortgages
Best Mortgages
Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment
Best Mortgages for No Down Payment
Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee
Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score
Adjustable Rate Mortgages
Affording a Mortgage
SELECT
All Insurance
Best Life Insurance
Best Homeowners Insurance
Best Renters Insurance
Best Car Insurance
Travel Insurance
SELECT
All Credit Monitoring
Best Credit Monitoring Services
Best Identity Theft Protection
How to Boost Your Credit Score
Credit Repair Services
SELECT
All Personal Finance
Best Budgeting Apps
Best Expense Tracker Apps
Best Money Transfer Apps
Best Resale Apps and Sites
Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps
Best Debt Relief
SELECT
All Small Business
Best Small Business Savings Accounts
Best Small Business Checking Accounts
Best Credit Cards for Small Business
Best Small Business Loans
Best Tax Software for Small Business
SELECT
All Taxes
Filing For Free
Best Tax Software
Best Tax Software for Small Businesses
Tax Refunds
Tax Brackets
Tax Tips
Tax By State
Tax Payment Plans
SELECT
All Help for Low Credit Scores
Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit
Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit
Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit
Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit
Best Credit Cards for Building Credit
Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower
Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower
Best Mortgages for Bad Credit
Best Hardship Loans
How to Boost Your Credit Score
SELECT
All Investing
Best IRA Accounts
Best Roth IRA Accounts
Best Investing Apps
Best Free Stock Trading Platforms
Best Robo-Advisors
Index Funds
Mutual Funds
ETFs
Bonds

Disney will take "full operational control" over Hulu from Comcast, effective immediately, the companies announced Tuesday.
Comcast also will be allowed to sell its 33% stake in Hulu to Disney in 2024 at a valuation of at least $27.5 billion, even if the streaming service is worth less, according to the agreement. Comcast is guaranteed at least $5.8 billion for its Hulu stake, according to the agreement.
As part of the deal, Disney has agreed to pay Comcast for its Hulu content for the next five years. NBC channels will be on Hulu Live at a higher rate than previously agreed. NBCUniversal, CNBC's parent company, will also be able to run the same content on its own streaming service, which is expected to launch in next spring.
"We believe strongly in the direct-to-consumer space and our content is a key driver of that ecosystem," NBC Universal CEO Steve Burke said in a statement. "The extension of the Hulu content-licensing agreement will generate significant cash flow for us, while giving us maximum flexibility to program and distribute to our own direct-to-consumer platform, as we build that business. Significantly, this transaction also affirms the value of our stake, provides a path to liquidity and ensures our continued equity participation in Hulu's success."
Comcast originally wanted to sell its NBCUniversal streaming service at around $12 a month. Then Disney priced its service at $6.99 per month in its recent announcement. This has prompted Comcast to decide to lower the price for its NBC streaming service, likely around $10 per month, according to two people familiar with the matter.
The paid version of NBCUniversal's streaming service will not let you watch live linear TV or same-season shows, according to people familiar with the matter. The free version of the service will require users to log in through their cable and satellite TV provider, but they'll be able to stream live TV from NBCUniversal channels and watch current-season episodes of shows, the people said. In effect, only pay TV subscribers will be able to get the fully featured streaming service from NBCUniversal.
NBCUniversal will have the option of ending most of its content license agreements with Hulu in three years, according to the announcement. In one year, NBCUniversal will be able to exhibit some of its own content that is currently exclusively licensed to Hulu in exchange for a reduced license fee for Hulu, the release said.
Currently, NBC gets paid more than $500 million a year from Hulu for its partnership.
Hulu bought back a 9.5% stake from AT&T last month in a deal that valued the company at $15 billion. Disney and Comcast had agreed to fund that purchase in accordance with their two-thirds to one-third ownership. Now, Comcast "will have the option but not the obligation to fund its proportionate share of Hulu's future capital gains calls and will be diluted if it elects not to fund," according to the release.
"Hulu represents the best of television, with its incredible array of award-winning original content, rich library of popular series and movies, and live TV offerings," Disney CEO Bob Iger said in a statement. "We are now able to completely integrate Hulu into our direct-to-consumer business and leverage the full power of The Walt Disney Company's brands and creative engines to make the service even more compelling and a greater value for consumers."
Disclosure: Comcast owns CNBC parent NBCUniversal.
Watch: Disney CEO Bob Iger releases statement on Hulu deal with Comcast
Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
© 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal

      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
    
Data also provided by
