Hulu’s Streaming Service Is No Longer Free | Vanity Fair
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
By Emily Jane Fox
When Hulu came on the scene in 2007, the streaming service seemed too good to be true. It was blissfully free and let viewers watch recently aired episodes of TV shows, encumbered only by a few brief interruptions. It was a revelatory user experience: leagues better than pirated content, and a boon for audiences and networks alike. The honeymoon lasted for a good three years before Hulu’s future plans—a departure from its original, free roots—started to reveal themselves with a subscription tier. Last year, it added an even higher-priced ad-free service. Taking aim at competitors like Netflix, Hulu started scrimping on its free content while bolstering original programming and adding marquee shows like Seinfeld and The Mindy Project for paying subscribers.
Now, the complimentary, ad-supported era is officially coming to an end. On Monday, the service announced it was ending its free offerings altogether, licensing its remaining free content to Yahoo.
“Our limited free offering simply isn’t aligned with our focus on creating the best experience possible and delivering the best content we can to Hulu subscribers,” Hulu senior vice president Ben Smith told The Wall Street Journal.
The announcement comes two weeks after Yahoo announced it would sell its core business to Verizon. On Monday, Yahoo launched Yahoo View, a video player it’s describing as a “community TV-watching site,” of which Hulu’s free content will be apart. (There is no surer sign that Hulu is ready to offload its free model than handing it off to Yahoo, the dying dinosaur of the Internet, of all places.)
Hulu’s decision to fully embrace the subscription model places it more squarely in competition with Netflix, and to some degree, Amazon Prime, as well. But it also gives credence to the line of thought that Hulu could, one day soon, become a digital version of a cable network. The company said earlier this spring that it had plans to stream feeds of cable and broadcast networks. The move makes sense, given that a number of these networks’ parent companies—from Walt Disney, to Comcast, to 21st Century Fox—already own a piece. Time Warner, the parent company of CNN, got in on the action last week, announcing it would buy a 10 percent stake in Hulu.
As TV looks to digital partnerships like these to re-invent itself, and Netflix struggles with stagnating growth in the model it pioneered, Hulu could be breaking free of both molds by borrowing a bit from each.
By Erin Vanderhoof
By Savannah Walsh
By Maya Kosoff
By Joanna Robinson
By Erin Vanderhoof
By Brooke Baldwin
More from Vanity Fair
Contact
© 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vanity Fair may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices
CN Entertainment
