The Bear Effect: Will the Hit Hulu Series Change Our Expectations and Experiences at Upscale Restaurants? | by Martin D. Hirsch | ILLUMINATION-Curated | Medium
Sign up
Sign in
Sign up
Sign in
Martin D. Hirsch
Follow
ILLUMINATION-Curated
--
2
Listen
Share
Sometimes life imitates art. On occasion, it can extract insights from art that seep into our behavior and experiences. That happened to me just the other night.
The art in this case is the ultra-popular and critically lauded FX series “The Bear,” streaming on Hulu. I was a late adopter. After reading raves about it for months, I finally watched it. And hated it. Until I loved it. The transition took until the very last episode of the first season.
For the uninitiated, “The Bear” is about a 26-year-old Italian-American guy, Carmy Berzatto, an award-winning chef who’s working in a Michelin-star-rated restaurant in New York when his older brother kills himself and leaves him his blue-collar sandwich joint, The Beef, in Chicago. Out of love and a sense of loyalty to his brother, Carmy takes charge of “The Beef” and its ragtag crew of misfits, devoting himself to turning them into a functional team, and a loving family.
Like a Primetime Panic AttackBefore that happens, though, The Bear is a loud, cacophonous eruption of colliding kitchenware and close-up camera work bouncing from one screaming lunatic to another. Kevin Fallon of The Daily Beast’s Obsession wrote that the early episodes of the show are “the equivalent of watching two or three dozen panic attacks occur in rapid succession, then having that tumult reverberate from the screen and directly into your body.”
In season 2, things get worse before they get better. Over the course of 10 episodes, Carmy — despite his own tortured, neurotic, guilt-ridden mind twisting him into knots of near-speechlessness — through his own passion for cooking and for creating memorable experiences for diners, gradually instills his staff with a sense of self-respect, purpose and deep connection to one another.
The intense nervous energy that was devoted to serving savory beef sandwiches in season 1 morphs into a roller-coaster of urgency in season 2 as Carmy and his crew race to gut The Beef and turn it into a Michelin-star-worthy eatery called The Bear (the Berzatto nickname). They pursue their vision under a near-impossible deadline, with the ever-present guillotine of long-term debt and life-altering failure hanging over their heads.
They succeed, though, and on opening night demonstrate a life-affirming gratification that customer-delight-obsessed chefs and servers feel when the looks on diners’ faces reveal that they’ve just experienced something special that they won’t soon forget. Case in point: After overhearing that a family in the room regret that their visit to Chicago would end before they’d had time to try the city’s world-famous deep-dish pizza, one of the staff’s heretofore misanthropic ne’er-do-wells sprints over to one of the town’s most famous take-out pie places and brings a few slices back to The Bear. He’s nearly overcome with joy as he watches the grateful customers beam as the tomato pie is served, chi-chi style, cut into rounds sprinkled with micro-basil.
I Want My Prestige TVHow has watching this prestige TV art affected me? Well, I’m no foody, but I do love to eat, and I especially enjoy an occasional night out at a great restaurant. Before The Bear, though, I never gave too much thought to what goes on in the kitchen. As far as servers are concerned, I always assumed they want to be doing something else — singing, dancing, acting, painting, modeling.
After The Bear, I’m discovering that I look at restaurants differently. I can definitely say The Bear has changed my perceptions about the restaurant business and made me a lot more curious, and demanding, about my own restaurant experiences.
Which brings me to the other night. My wife and had invited a good friend of ours, along with her newlywed daughter and son-in-law, to a celebratory dinner at Zuma, a modern Japanese restaurant in midtown Manhattan. All the food there is sourced from Japan and everything is served family style, so we got to share a diverse and delicious assortment of small plates and main dishes: nigiri sushi variation, chicken and beef skewers, rock shrimp with chili tofu and assorted vegetables tempura to start; rib eye steak with chili ponzu, Chilean sea bass and rib eye with ponzu sauce as main courses, with side orders of mushrooms and sweet potato. Our beverages included cocktails mixed to perfection and two bottles of fabulous pinot noir.
For dessert, we ordered my favorite — Zuma’s pecan sundae — with two other creamy confections. And I ordered a double espresso to go with mine.
And that’s when the impeccable dinner experience was harshly disrupted, like someone bumping into a state-of-the-art the turntable, sending the diamond stylus screeching across the vinyl in the middle of a beautiful symphony.
“Sorry sir,” I heard our server say. “Our coffee machine is broken and we have no espresso tonight.”
I Didn’t Used to Be Like ThisAnd here’s where the art of The Bear kicked in. I found that I couldn’t imagine this happening on Carmy’s watch. Whereas I normally would have grinned and beared it (no pun intended), now I couldn’t help myself.
“Are you familiar with “The Bear?” I asked our waiter. He smiled and said that he was. “Well,” I said, “if you worked at The Bear, your boss would have sent your tail scurrying down the street to bring back an espresso. By any means necessary. ”
“Very sorry,” he repeated.
But when he came back with the desserts — served with a candle on a shiny white plate, a wedding note scripted on it in chocolate sauce — there was my double espresso, conspicuous in its unexpected presence. The newlyweds smiled in appreciation as I looked on, nonplussed, my mouth agape.
“What happened to the broken coffee machine,” I asked our waiter.
“It got fixed a minute ago,” he said.
And there it was. The perfect finishing touch on a perfectly lovely evening
On the way home we passed three or four coffee shops, including a Starbucks, that I would have advised the Zuma folks to remember if their coffee machine ever breaks down again.
One of those places, a small, stylishly designed Italian cafe called Cinico Coffee Company, is brand new and always packed. People have lined the window counters, tables and upholstered seating as well as sipped their brew at the bistro tables outside ever since it opened a little over a month ago. There had been a similar French coffee shop there before the Cinico, but I never recall it having this avid a clientele, and before I could even try it, it had closed.
Pulling Back the CurtainI could only wonder what the Cinico owner’s secret was. With a raft of Starbucks and independent coffee shops within a few-block radius, how did this guy pull off his “if-you-build-it-they-will-come” magic?
Without hesitation, I approached the proprietor, the easily-approachable Ben Hamilton, 32, who was happy to tell his story and share his philosophy of hospitality.
Born on the upper-east side to a family with some Italian roots and a mother and grandmother who worked in the business, his mom shipped him off to the motherland twice a year since the age of seven to learn the customs and culture of the Old World. She also wanted Ben, an only child, to become “independent and streetwise.”
By his teen years he’d become a true New-Euro kid, with one foot planted in New York and the other in Italy, where, in high school, he studied hospitality with a curriculum covering the psychology of catering to customers, the principles of quality service, and the art of cooking.
After his parents divorced, Ben and his mother wound up living full time in the northern Italian city of Padua, about two hours from Milan. Ben made it his home for 26 years and met his wife, Giorgia, there.
Having headed down parallel paths as a pop music pianist, singer and songwriter, and as a restaurant and hospitality professional in Europe, Ben made a big decision and moved with Giorgia to New York earlier this year to open Cinico.
“Before we were even ready to open,” he said, “people would come by and press their noses into the windows, and Giorgia and I were always here to greet them.” Soon it was as if they were already beloved neighbors before their restaurant had served its first cappuccino. By the way, unlike most midtown coffee shops, in addition to an assortment of custom-blended coffee from Italy, Cinico serves breakfast, lunch and dinner, including fresh-squeezed orange juice, awesome focaccia sandwiches, traditional and vegetarian lasagna, beer, wine and a cornucopia of pastries.
The food, drink and ambiance are a big part of the draw. And so are the owner’s friendly face and demeanor. But what else draws full houses every day?
One big thing is being visible to guests and passers by from morning to night, Ben said. And then there are three key rules: “First, lead by example. Second, you take time with your staff, and you never let your restaurant start to feel like a corporate chain. Third, you establish standards of service and quality, across the board, all the time.”
Still struggling a bit with my “no espresso tonight” experience at Zuma, I went back to find a manager there who might have some backstory about the broken coffee machine and how my espresso miraculously landed on my table in spite of it. I mean, when my coffee maker breaks down, it’s kaput! Permanently.
Assistant general manager Mike Formoso took a brief time out from his hectic Halloween night rounds at the restaurant to talk to me about this story. He confirmed that kitchen staff really do say “Yes, chef” and “Thank you, chef,” to one another, just like on The Bear, and that the employees love their work and thrive on the sense of urgency. “This is an ecosystem, and each of us has to depend on the other,” he said.
Then I asked him what really happened last Friday when the broken coffee machine mysteriously repaired itself and… voila! My double espresso appeared.
He’ll Never Tell“What you saw is what you got,” Mike said. “No backstory. We have a very expensive, top-of-the-line coffee maker. It broke down briefly, and then we fixed it.”
Maybe the fung shui expert Mike told me Zuma had hired to assure a positive energy flow through the elegant restaurant’s interior space had worked her magic. Or, maybe it was just my lucky night.
“But what if the machine breaks down again, for a longer time?” I asked him. “Don’t you need a Plan B, or a backup Nespresso machine or something?”
“No worries,” Mike said with assurance. “We’ll figure it out, just like they always do on The Bear.”
--
--
2
ILLUMINATION-Curated
Lapsed singer-songwriter, 35-year accidental company man, citizen of The Woodstock Nation, avid essayist, occasional poet, aspiring author, dogged evolutionary.
Help
Status
About
Careers
Blog
Privacy
Terms
Text to speech
Teams
