Ampere Analysis Insights
 
 

                                    5 Hardwick Street
                                    London EC1R 4RB
                                
A combined Disney+ and Hulu Video on Demand (VoD) service will have one-third of the 100 most Popular* titles in the US based on the latest data from Ampere Analysis. Ampere’s estimates show that a planned combined app that will bring the services together early next year would have the greatest share of the top 100 most popular titles based on Ampere Popularity data from September 2023, and putting it behind only Amazon in terms of catalogue size.
Disney+ held 17 of the top* 100 performing SVoD titles in the US in Q3 2023, led by its movie library. When combined with Hulu, that figure jumps to 33, giving the joint entity the largest overall share of top titles. In comparison, Netflix has 29 titles and Max 18.



Ampere’s latest title-level analysis of the content offer suggests the combined Disney+/Hulu app will offer 9000 distinct movies and TV seasons,– even if the approximately 300 Comcast-owned titles are removed from the service. This would position Disney+ and Hulu’s total content offering behind only Amazon Prime Video’s 10,892 titles and ahead of Netflix’s 8391 (as of Q3 2023). 



Disney+’s content strategy relies on its strong Children & Family content portfolio and tentpole Sci-Fi & Fantasy releases from major franchises. These would represent 81% of the top 100 most popular titles on the combined platform. Hulu’s content library would complement Disney+’s as it includes popular titles from genres currently under-served on Disney+, particularly Crime & Thriller, Romance, and Horror. Disney+ already includes some of the Hulu library in non-US markets under the Star banner so that a combined content mix would align with the strategy internationally. As of October 2023, Hulu has more subscribers than Disney+ in the US and according to Ampere’s consumer survey, 44% of US Hulu subscribers already have access to Disney+, largely due to bundles offering both platforms and ESPN. This provides an opportunity for Disney+ to convert the remaining majority of Hulu subscribers who don’t currently subscribe. Ampere’s consumer survey also shows that 43% of US SVoD users agree with feeling ’overwhelmed’ with the number of services they have access to. With an existing appetite for aggregation among consumers, a combined offering that includes top titles from recognisable IP like Marvel and Star Wars, and Hulu’s vast content library would deliver a more generalised offering with wider appeal. 

07.05.24  Tingting Li
                

This monthly report looks at the most popular movies and TV shows globally on major international SVoD and AVoD/BVoD platforms in March 2024 and top titles in individual markets, based on Ampere's popularity score.

This monthly report looks at the most popular movies and TV shows globally on major international SVoD and AVoD/BVoD platforms in March 2024 and top titles in individual markets, based on Ampere's popularity score.

01.05.24  Joe Hall
                

Ampere Analytics - Netflix Viewing Data is a standalone application, combining the global viewing hours for titles reported by Netflix in their Engagement report with the Ampere Analytics metadata database. The application is available …

Ampere Analytics - Netflix Viewing Data is a standalone application, combining the global viewing hours for titles reported by Netflix in their Engagement report with the Ampere Analytics metadata database. The application is available …

19.04.24  Rahul Patel
                

In March 2024, Apple TV+ licensed a slate of over 50 movies, representing a departure from the SVoD platform's original content-focused strategy. This report looks at the characteristics of these licensing deals, why Apple …

In March 2024, Apple TV+ licensed a slate of over 50 movies, representing a departure from the SVoD platform's original content-focused strategy. This report looks at the characteristics of these licensing deals, why Apple …

                            The Amp is our highly-acclaimed free weekly round up of key industry news, delivered to your inbox. Sign up and be informed.
                        

                             
                        
 © Ampere Analysis 2024
