Strategy Analytics: Amazon and Hulu Fall Behind Netflix Based On User Forum Language Analysis | Business Wire
BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Users of Amazon Prime Video and Hulu are much more likely to discuss technical problems and dissatisfaction with content than Netflix subscribers, according to the latest Strategy Analytics report, “Voice of the Customer: What Are Netflix Subscribers Saying Compared To Competitors?”. The analysis shows that Netflix users are much more likely to spend time discussing characters and storylines in great detail, suggesting high levels of engagement with Netflix shows. By contrast, discussions involving Hulu users focus on resolving problems with the service, while Amazon users focus on negative comments to do with pricing and lack of content choice. The report concludes that Hulu and Amazon must address these deficiencies if they are to make inroads into Netflix’s leadership position. The findings should also serve as a warning to Disney and Warner Media as they prepare to launch new streaming services.



The research, which is based on advanced language analytics techniques, shows that, compared to Hulu and Amazon, Netflix users are much more likely to discuss:


“Netflix’s advantages are numerous, but lie primarily in the fact that its users are much more engaged with the content than those using Amazon Prime Video or Hulu,” says Michael Goodman, Director, TV & Media Strategies. “Neither Amazon nor Hulu have managed to get much beyond technical or pricing issues in order to build that all-important content-viewer relationship which ensures higher retention levels and sustained subscription revenues.”


Note: The research for this report was carried out by Relative Insight (www.relativeinsight.com) in partnership with Strategy Analytics. Relative Insight is a UK-based language understanding technology company, which is used by brands and agencies to reveal and act on critical language insights.


About Strategy Analytics


Strategy Analytics, Inc. is a global leader in supporting companies across their planning lifecycle through a range of customized market research solutions. Our multi-discipline capabilities include: industry research advisory services, customer insights, user experience design and innovation expertise, mobile consumer on-device tracking and business-to-business consulting competencies. With domain expertise in: TV and media, intelligent home, service providers, smart devices, connected cars, IoT, and strategic components, Strategy Analytics can develop a solution to meet your specific planning need. For more information, visit us at www.strategyanalytics.com


For more information about Strategy Analytics
Service Name: TV & Media Strategies



Michael Goodman, +1 617 614 0769, mgoodman@strategyanalytics.com 
David Mercer, +1 44 1908 423610, dmercer@strategyanalytics.com


Michael Goodman, +1 617 614 0769, mgoodman@strategyanalytics.com 
David Mercer, +1 44 1908 423610, dmercer@strategyanalytics.com

