Report: Hulu tests performance-based measurements for advertisers | Marketing Dive

                
                    
                        Let Marketing Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
            

Topics covered: Social media, brand strategy, advertising, marketing technology, data/analytics, content marketing
Topics covered: Campaigns, platform developments, apps, gaming, trends
Topics covered: Campaigns, reviews, strategy, partnerships, technology, results
Hulu continues to roll out new features to attract advertisers looking for new ways to reach audiences, who are increasingly cutting the cord and not watching as much live TV. Unlike traditional cable TV networks, Hulu isn't selling performance-based guarantees like the ones offered by Turner in partnership with AT&T's Xandr. Instead, Hulu is offering the size of its audience, which now includes 25 million U.S. subscribers, along with more flexibility than traditional TV networks and the ability to offer more relevant ads to viewers at the right time and on the right device.
The new performance-based measurements follow reports that Hulu this year will launch "pause ads," which provide a "natural break in the storytelling experience." Hulu says it expects that more than half of its ad revenue will come from "non-disruptive" experiences over the next three years. The platform's ad revenue reached $1.5 billion last year, a 45% year-over-year increase, as brands invest more money in over-the-top TV services like Hulu. In 2018, ad spend on OTT TV was expected to jump 40% to $2 billion, according to a fall update to Magna's U.S. ad forecasts.
Marketers are also showing more of an interest in voice technology, especially as consumer adoption of smart speakers grows. Hulu's partnership with Amazon's Alexa-powered Echo Show illustrates a new opportunity for voice technology. Brands have mostly been leveraging voice for offering product information or answering questions, as most people who own the devices are still not using them to make purchases, but being able to access shows via voice commands is another application that consumers have quickly adopted.
Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts
After handling the CPG giant's business at Publicis, Gail Hollander now leads the marketer's in-house efforts to modernize brands for new audiences.
Gen X is expected to be the wealthiest generation in history, however, they are largely ignored by brands. 
Subscribe to Marketing Dive for top news, trends & analysis
Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts
After handling the CPG giant's business at Publicis, Gail Hollander now leads the marketer's in-house efforts to modernize brands for new audiences.
Gen X is expected to be the wealthiest generation in history, however, they are largely ignored by brands. 
The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines









Not crushing it: Apple’s new iPad Pro ad met with wave of backlash
                         










Gap names new global CMO amid push to revitalize brand
                         










Instagram beats TikTok for video-based user acquisition, survey finds
                         










Impossible Foods’ Americana ads address the meat problem — with more meat
                         



