Hulu is now officially part of Disney Plus – here's what you need to know | TechRadar
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
New info reveals subscriptions costs, launch date, and more
Hulu and Disney Plus have officially tied the knot. After almost four months of beta testing, the streaming bundle is here at last, giving people a way to watch content from both services on a single smart TV app.
Disney Plus even made some stylistic changes to its platform as a way to celebrate the union. The logo is more bluish-green, referring to the colors of each platform, and the startup audio mark will sound more orchestral.
For the most part, the final and beta versions are very similar. Hulu will exist on Disney Plus as its own hub alongside Marvel movies and other brand name content in the United States (Hulu isn’t available anywhere else in the world). That part hasn’t changed. However, new information from Disney’s announcement as well as other online reports offer insight into how the partnership will work.
Bundle plans containing both services will start at $9.99 a month for the standard subscription with ads. That’s $2 more than Disney Plus Basic. There will also be a premium plan without commercials for $19.99 a month. Alongside these two, the company will offer a pair of Trio subscriptions that include ESPN Plus as part of the package.
Trio Basic combines all three for $14.99 a month. As the name suggests, this version includes ads. Trio Premium removes the commercials and bumps up the price to $24.99. Of course, you can always purchase a subscription to whatever platform you want separately. Multiple viewing options will continue to exist.

Not everything on Hulu will be available on Disney Plus. Variety says certain shows, like Modern Family and Love Island, are not going to show up because of “content licensing restrictions”. These restrictions were first seen in the beta and remain for the time being. 
Starting today, March 27, Disney Plus will begin to recommend Hulu content to viewers in order to encourage them to buy the new bundle. Developers at the company also made changes to the service’s search engine to improve content personalization. 
According to The Verge, “what you watch on Hulu will affect your Disney Plus recommendations and vice versa”. What's more, it may be possible to merge accounts. A company representative told us that if you have subscriptions to both services and you use the same email, the Hulu tile will automatically show up on the Disney Plus app. If you use different emails, you'll have to contact Disney Plus support to link them together.
Get the hottest deals available in your inbox plus news, reviews, opinion, analysis, deals and more from the TechRadar team.
There is one major exclusion in all this: no live channels. Nothing from Hulu Live TV will be present “for the foreseeable future”. If you want sports, reps told us you'll have to purchase one of the Disney Trio plans.
If you're looking for recommendations, check out TechRadar's collection of the 41 best Hulu shows you can watch right now. Shōgun's pretty good.
Cesar Cadenas has been writing about the tech industry for several years now specializing in consumer electronics, entertainment devices, Windows, and the gaming industry. But he’s also passionate about smartphones, GPUs, and cybersecurity. 
How to watch Interview with the Vampire season 2 online — TV channel and streaming
Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes director explains the film's timeline, setting and cinematic universe
I tried 5 exercises from Ryan Reynolds’ Deadpool trainer to build Marvel-worthy arms—here's how I got on
TechRadar is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 


Streaming


1Apple iPad Pro M4 event Live blog as it happened: OLED, Air, Pencil and more2Here's one good reason you may want to 'downgrade' your SSD and lose capacity in the process — cheap QLC SSD can be transformed into expensive SLC to improve endurance but it's not for the fainthearted3Dell cracks down on hybrid working again — computing giant is going to start color-coding employees to show who is coming back to the office4Chinese server CPU beats Microsoft, Google and AWS rivals to grab performance crown — Alibaba's Yitian 710 is quickest server CPU but it is based on Arm rather than RISC and x86 is likely to be the overall speed champion510 things Apple forgot to tell us about the new iPad Pro and iPad Air
1Microsoft is bringing passkeys to all users24 reasons why most free VPNs are scams3Boeing says it refused to pay massive ransomware demand4Logic Pro 2 is a reminder that Apple's AI ambitions aren't just about chatbots5I tested Samsung's glare-free OLED TV vs a conventional OLED TV – here's what I learned
