Disney+ vs. Hulu: Which streaming service is right for you?
— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed’s editors. Purchases you make through our links may earn us a commission.
Now that Disney+ is available, you’ve got even more options when it comes time to kick back and enjoy some TV or a movie. Both Disney+ and Hulu offer extensive libraries full of great content, but each comes with its own unique slate of exclusive original programming. Here’s what you need to know about the key differences between the two streaming services, and a way to save on getting both. 
Like a good deal? Sign up for our weekly deals newsletter. It’s free and you can unsubscribe any time.
Disney’s new direct-to-consumer streaming platform provides access to thousands of episodes of television and hundreds of movies from the Disney Vault, Lucasfilm, Marvel, National Geographic, Pixar, and more. Among the biggest highlights are the exclusive Disney+ Originals, including a full slate of live-action Marvel and Star Wars shows, as well as 30 seasons of the beloved animated sitcom "The Simpsons." And all your favorite Disney classics—"Beauty and the Beast," "Lilo & Stitch," "Mary Poppins," "Pirates of the Caribbean," "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs"—are included, as well.
Sign up for Disney+ for $6.99 per month or $69.99 per year
With Hulu, you’ll get exclusive access to stream TV shows like "30 Rock," "Adventure Time," "Brooklyn Nine-Nine," "Family Guy," "Futurama," "Killing Eve," "King of the Hill," "Lost," "Preacher," "Rick and Morty," "Seinfeld," and "Teen Titans Go!" It also includes an extensive library of new and classic films. Original programming you won’t find elsewhere includes seasons of "The Path," "The Handmaid’s Tale," the upcoming "High Fidelity," "The Mindy Project," "Veronica Mars," the Stephen King anthology series "Castle Rock," "Spoilers with Kevin Smith," and a whole bunch of upcoming Marvel superhero shows.
Sign up for Hulu starting at $5.99 per month
If you want to check out Disney+, you can do so with a free seven-day trial. You'll need a credit card to sign up, and, if you don't cancel before that week is up, you'll be charged $6.99 if you signed up for the monthly option or $69.99 if you would rather pay for a full year up-front. 
If you’re only interested in Hulu, you can sign up for the ad-supported plan at just $5.99 a month, which also includes a free one-month trial. There’s also an ad-free version of Hulu for $11.99 per month. Hulu offers yet another package, which includes live TV, at a monthly rate of $44.99.
If you're interested in both services, there's a special deal available that might make more sense for you. U.S. residents can sign up for a special bundled deal that gives users access to Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN+ for a single monthly fee of $12.99. This saves you about $5, or 25% of the normal cost for the three services, and keeps you from having to choose between the two platforms—just note that the version of Hulu that comes with the three-in-one bundle does feature ads.
Get the Disney+, ESPN+, and Hulu bundle for $12.99 per month
You can watch Disney+ on a large number of streaming-capable devices, such as desktop PCs (in your web browser), Android phones and tablets, Apple iPhones and iPads, Android TV devices, Samsung Tizen smart TVs, Sony PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Amazon FireTV, Apple AirPlay, and Google Chromebook and Chromecast.
Hulu is available on Android phones and tablets, Android TV, Apple TV, Chromecast, Echo Show, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Fire TV Stick, iPhones and iPads, select LG TV models, Nintendo Switch, Mac and PC browsers, PlayStation 3 and PS4, Roku and Roku Stick, Samsung TVs, VIZIO SmartCast, Windows 10, Xbox 360, and Xbox One.
The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.
