Hulu vs. Amazon Prime Video: Which streamer is right for you? | Digital Trends
Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us?
With so many streaming services to choose from, it can be hard to figure out where to allocate your hard-earned cash. Netflix is the one most turn to, but there are other options in the streaming service marketplace. Two of the most popular Netflix alternatives are Hulu and Amazon Prime Video. Is Hulu a better deal than Amazon Prime Video? Prime Video is the second most popular streaming service and Hulu is fourth, but there is much more to discover. We will go over each service and see how they compare in a Hulu versus Amazon Prime Video battle.
Amazon offers two main price tiers: $139 annually (discounted to $69 annually when you sign up with a valid student email address) or $15 per month. Both versions include all the Amazon Prime perks, like two-day shipping, discounted prices on select items, cloud storage, and — most important for our purposes — on-demand video and music streaming.
The best part is that, unlike Netflix, 4K Ultra HD content with HDR comes standard at no extra cost. Plus, you can share accounts with friends and family so that everyone can get in on the deals. You can also supplement Amazon’s included content with optional channel add-ons, such as CBS All Access, for an additional fee. Amazon doesn’t have a live TV streaming service per se, but many of the content providers it has partnered with for Prime Video offer the ability to watch their shows “live” too.
Hulu starts at just $8 for the ad-based service or $15 for the ad-free option (which we highly recommend). Hulu’s options don’t stop there, as it also offers a live TV streaming package similar to Sling TV, YouTube TV, Philo, and Fubo. The Hulu With Live TV streaming service includes Disney+ and ESPN+. It is currently $70 per month and includes 90-plus livestreaming channels on top of its regular on-demand library. There are also add-on features like enhanced DVR and an ad-free experience for $76 per month. Starting in December 2022, these prices will increase to $75 (with ads) and $83 (no ads).
If you watch a lot of Disney+, ESPN+, or live TV shows, Hulu’s Live TV may be your winner, as Amazon does not offer Live TV. While Hulu’s $8 tier on its own is technically cheaper, especially for those who want to stream 4K at the lowest possible price, Amazon offers the most value when considering all of its other perks and its complete lack of ads. Amazon has also stated that the company won’t raise prices for 4K streaming. Throw in , and it walks away with the win here.
Winner: Amazon
Amazon Prime Video has a catalog of thousands of titles to watch before adding any premium options like Starz or Showtime. Amazon continues to invest heavily in original content, like The Wheel of Time, The Boys, and The Rings of Power. Where Amazon really shines is in sheer quantity. It has almost more titles than Netflix and Hulu combined, with 26,000 movies and 2,700 TV shows. And, of course, if you’re leaving a cable provider and think you’ll miss out on pay-per-view options, Amazon has an extensive collection of new releases available to buy or rent.
Hulu, which is owned in part by Disney, has access to an unparalleled collection of over 1,300 TV shows, making it a great choice if what you really want is a replacement for cable TV access to the major networks. Most shows are available the day after they air live on their respective broadcasters, except for CBS, which is not a part of Hulu. It has a decent collection of  1,200 movies, but you can tell that movies are not the principal attraction.
Of course, it will depend on what show and movies are important to you, but we’re going to give this one to Hulu for now because while it may not match Amazon’s breadth of selection, we think you’ll actually want to watch more of Hulu’s catalog.
Winner: 
Nowadays, both Amazon Prime Video and Hulu are accessible on pretty much everything from Android and iOS devices to Apple TV, Roku, and Amazon Fire TV streaming devices. The full list is far too long to include, so head over to each provider’s website to see if your device made the cut: Hulu, Amazon Prime Video.
Winner: Draw
The Amazon interface offers several categories like Continue Watching, Amazon Originals, and Recommended Movies. One point in its favor is that you can browse Prime Video directly on the Amazon webpage and its various apps, and it also works great with Amazon’s Fire TV streaming devices. However, these interfaces often differ from one another, and frankly, some aren’t as intuitive as others are. If you subscribe to a premium channel, you can do so through Amazon Prime Video Channels and have the content appear right in the Prime Video interface.
Hulu has a relatively intuitive interface, offering categories like Keep Watching, TV, Movies, and Kids that make it pretty simple to navigate. You can also add on premium channels like HBO, and shows and movies from those channels will show up on your Hulu interface.
Hulu used to be the clear winner here, but Amazon Prime Video has really stepped up the interface game lately. They are both pretty equal now, and it would come down to personal preference.
Winner: Draw
As touched on above, Amazon offers 4K Ultra HD resolution and HDR streaming support and does so at no extra charge. In terms of video quality, that’s huge, and those with high-quality, large TVs (55 inches and up) should take serious note. Hulu’s 4K UHD content continues to grow and is currently available on a range of devices, including Apple TV 4K set-top boxes (fifth-gen and up), Xbox One/X/S, Roku, Chromecast Ultra, Amazon Fire TV devices, Vizio’s SmartCast TVs, and LG 2017, 2018, and 2020 UHD TVs.
As for audio quality, Hulu has limited stereo sound for the vast majority of its content, although the same shows are available in 5.1 surround sound elsewhere. Yes, some select shows and movies support 5.1, but it’s nowhere near as impressive as Amazon’s 5.1, 7.1, and Dolby Atmos surround sound encoding on select content. Did we mention there’s no extra charge for any of this high-end A/V support? Yup, Amazon wins this one without breaking a sweat.
Winner: Amazon
It’s hard to find fresher content than Hulu’s list of TV shows. With few exceptions, each episode will be available within 24 hours of its original airing, and if you’re on the more expensive no-ads plan, you get to watch them uninterrupted, which is worth the one-day wait.
If you’re not willing to move up to the premium tier ($15 per month compared to the standard $8 fee), the commercials can really impede Hulu’s greatness. Users who don’t move up will have to watch a stream of ads, the number of which has only grown more frequent (and yet, less varied) as the service has expanded. Hulu’s movies are less current but no older than what you’ll find on most competing services.
As mentioned previously,  at $70 per month, which includes live sports and news if you’re willing to pay. In contrast, Amazon has “Channels,” which allows you to add select premium channels with newer content. Of course, if you don’t pay for Channels on Amazon (which are pricey to add on), you can purchase the latest episodes, but you’ll end up paying a massive premium that makes it all but prohibitive ($2 to $3 per episode for SD, $3 to $4 for HD, or $20 to $40 or more for a “season pass”).
For serious cord-cutters who want to stream the latest series, Hulu is the only way to go.
Winner: 
Free 30-day trial

Free 30-day trial
Amazon and Hulu have been catching up to Netflix with quality in original programming. For Amazon, notable content includes highly-reviewed shows like The Wheel of Time, The Boys, Jack Ryan, and The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, all of which are worth discovering. Also, Amazon spent hundreds of millions of dollars on its new Lord of the Rings series. Jeff Bezos has deep enough pockets to compete with virtually anyone in streaming.
Though neither of these services can hold a candle to Netflix regarding original content, we’re giving this one to Amazon because — at the moment, anyway — we believe it’s spending more aggressively on new content than Hulu, which bodes well for the future. That said, with Disney taking control of Hulu, this could change quickly.
Winner: Amazon
In the battle of Hulu versus Amazon Prime, if you’ve already got an Amazon Prime membership, then there’s hardly any contest — you’re already paying for Prime Video, so you might as well enjoy it. You might add Hulu’s cheaper ad-supported plan as a quick, simple way to see some shows and live TV you might be missing.
If you don’t have a Prime membership, however, a no-ads Hulu subscription is a solid choice. Despite the lack of 4K and better sound formats, Hulu has the content to please almost any viewer, especially if you like major network TV shows.
There’s nothing like a good belly ;augh to get you through a tough day, kick off the weekend, or entertain you during a commute or a flight. Whenever and wherever you want to watch, Amazon Prime Video has some great TV comedies (with the option to download content to watch offline, too!)
The great thing about TV comedies is that the episodes are typically, short so you can watch them during a 20 to 30-minute commute, while doing other tasks like making dinner, or when you only have limited time. There are three TV comedies on Prime Video you need to watch in May, two that will take you back to a simpler time with clever, biting, and even deadpan humor.
Newhart (1982-1990)
A 50th birthday is a momentous occasion and marks a prodigious milestone -- halfway to a century is nothing to squawk at. It’s only fair that we respect our movies the same way, especially considering film itself is less than 150 years old. We’ve only broken the surface on what the art form can be, and much like a museum patron appreciating Renaissance greats, it’s our job as the viewer to keep the legacy of these movies alive.
Luckily for us, the movies of 1974 are not only great, but often mirror the same thoughts, paranoias, and experiences that we see in our present-day lives. While exaggerated to a point and perfectly placed within their time, here are a few films ranging from true classics to underrated gems that are celebrating the big 5-0 and are just as successful through a modern lens.
Chinatown (1974)
Classic film lovers have a lot to enjoy on Amazon Prime Video in May, including some of Alfred Hitchcock's suspense thrillers like Psycho, Rear Window, and Rope. For comedy fans, there's Airplane! and Bottle Rocket, while Chocolat and Cold Mountain should warm the hearts of romance aficionados. Gattaca offers some sci-fi-adjacent drama, while Once Upon A Time In The West is the last great spaghetti western. But if you only watch one Amazon Prime Video movie in May 2024, our pick is the 1998 German thriller Run Lola Run.
Tom Tykwer wrote and directed Run Lola Run, which was considered an experimental film during its initial release. Franka Potente stars a Lola, a woman who only has 20 minutes to save the life of her boyfriend, Manni (Moritz Bleibtreu). And when fate conspires against Lola's efforts, she writes her own fate through sheer force of will. Run Lola Run is only 80 minutes long, but it moves at such a fast pace that you'll hardly notice the time. If you haven't seen Run Lola Run, these are the reasons why it's the movie to stream this month on Amazon Prime Video.
Franka Potente gives a terrific performance
Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.


Home


EntertainmentGuides
