Hulu Vs Amazon Prime Video: Which Netflix Alternative Is Right For You? - Forbes Vetted
Netflix is largely considered to be the best video-streaming service out there, and for good reason. It has a massive content library that’s only growing, is super easy to use, and works across a ton of platforms. But that doesn’t mean you should forget about all the Netflix alternatives out there -- in fact, some of them may even be better for you, depending on your situation.
But what are those alternatives? And should you subscribe to them? Here are some of the best Netflix alternatives out there, and why you should think about signing up for them.

Hulu Home

Price:
Device support: Hulu is available on Android, Apple TV, Fire tablets, Fire TV, iOS, select LG TVs, Nintendo Switch, Roku, select Samsung TVs, Xbox 360, Xbox One, and on your web browser.
Why it’s great: Hulu offers a library of streamable content, but unlike some other streaming services, perhaps the best thing about it is that it offers many TV shows for streaming the day after they air. In other words, if you’re fine with waiting a day for your favorite network TV shows, you can stream them relatively on time. It’s catalog of TV shows is pretty big -- and it’s only getting better. If you’re into Anime, it has plenty of that too.
While we’re not getting into it in this article, Hulu also offers a Live TV option, which costs $35 per month. Safe to say, if you like the idea of a streaming platform and Live TV platform rolled into one, Hulu is an excellent option for you.
Subscribe Now: Hulu

Amazon Prime Video

Price:
Device support: Amazon Prime Instant Video is available on Android, iOS, Fire TV, Fire Phone, Apple TV, PlayStation, Xbox, Wii, Roku, TiVo, and in your web browser.
Why it’s great: Perhaps the best thing about Amazon Prime Instant Video is the fact that you may already have access to it -- if you have an Amazon Prime account. In other words, the service is rolled into Amazon Prime, which also gets you things like free shipping on Amazon, music streaming, discounts at Whole Foods, and more. Safe to say, getting Amazon Prime gets you a whole lot more than just video streaming.
When it comes to video streaming, however, Amazon Prime Instant Video isn’t bad -- and it’s getting better too. Amazon offers a few original TV shows that have been very well-received, like Man in the High Castle and The Grand Tour, plus it offers access to a range of TV shows and movies. Its library may not be as big as the likes of Netflix or Hulu -- but if you can find everything you need, that may not matter.
Subscribe Now: Amazon Prime Instant Video

HBO Now

Price and streaming quality:
Device support: HBO Now is available on Amazon Kindle, Fire TV, Android, Android TV, Apple TV, iOS, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Roku, Xbox One, Xbox 360, and in your web browser.
Why it’s great: HBO Now is famous for its original programming. HBO has been building its slate of original content for some time now, and that’s not going to change any time soon. With shows like Game of Thrones, Silicon Valley, and more, there’s certainly a good case to sign up for the service. 
There is a trade-off though -- HBO Now is one of the more expensive video streaming services out there, so you’re paying for all that original programming. It’s worth taking a good look through HBO’s library of content before signing up to see if it’s actually worth it for you -- and you may find yourself only signing up to watch a show, then unsubscribing until a new show you like comes along.
Subscribe Now: HBO Now

Crackle

Price and streaming quality: 
Device support: Crackle is available on a range of devices -- including Android, iOS, Kindle, smart TVs from Sony, Samsung, LG, and Vizio, streaming devices like Roku, Apple TV, and Fire TV, and gaming devices like the PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, PlayStation TV, Xbox One, and Xbox 360.
Why it’s great: Perhaps the best thing about Crackle is that it’s free -- so you don’t have to worry about how much it costs. Of course, the trade-off is that it’s ad-supported, so you’ll have to be fine with ads coming up every now and then, just like network TV.
The other trade-off is that Crackle’s library isn’t quite as big as the likes of Netflix, but there are still some diamonds in the rough, so if you’re looking for something new then it might be a good choice for you. Of course, considering it’s free, you could always sign up and try it out for a while without too many repercussions.
Subscribe Now: Crackle

