How the Netflix model impacts the environment, economy and society |  | The Guardian
Entrepreneurs are bringing the sharing-by-mail model to toys, books, art and more, but is sharing always more sustainable?
Success often breeds copycats, and the rapid ascent of Netflix is no exception. Its initial model of sharing products by mail has attracted a wave of startups and big retailers hoping to be the Netflix of toys (Spark Box Toys), books (Booksfree), fashion (CoutureSqd, Le Tote, Rent the Runway), designer jewelry (RocksBox) and more.
Some of these companies charge a membership fee, just like Netflix, while others offer pay-per-use online rentals. All are part of the sharing economy: they make money by sharing the same products instead of by selling more products. The sharing economy also includes Airbnb, which rents private rooms, apartments and homes; and Zipcar, which charges a monthly fee to members who share cars instead of owning them.  But as the Netflix model gains popularity, how sustainable is it – and has anyone besides Netflix actually been able to make a profit?
Without doing credible lifecycle analyses, many of these companies that embrace the model are banking on the intuitive belief that it’s more environmentally friendly to reuse the same stuff over and over, by different people, rather than to sell new products that will most likely sit unused in a closet corner. The idea, simplified, is “less stuff is better.”
That is certainly a philosophy to which Max Gover, owner of Spark Box Toys in Newark, New Jersey, subscribes. The company, founded in 2012, charges members a fee for a box of toys designed for children under the age of four. A box arrives every four, six or eight weeks, and parents can opt to buy the toys.
“Educational toys have a short life because children develop so quickly, so what happens is you have this incredible amount of waste by accumulating them,“ Gover said. “A child could get attached to a teddy bear. But a toy that teaches scales will serve very little purpose after that [skill] has been acquired.“
But good data crunching often shows results that upend what may seem obvious. A study by the University of Massachusetts found that streaming a movie requires 78% of the energy needed to ship a DVD, but accumulates a carbon footprint that’s roughly 100% higher. The higher carbon impact comes from the intensive energy use – caused by inefficient equipment – of data centers that store movies and pipe them into homes.
The study focused only on Netflix, however, which ships thin, lightweight DVDs or sends content electronically. But some entrepreneurs attracted to the Netflix model are often offering larger products, some of which come in odd, harder-to-ship shapes and sizes. 
Shipping goods over longer distances would certainly seem to require more energy, and a bigger carbon footprint, than driving to a local video store. But again, that’s not always true. According to a study in the Journal of Industrial Ecology, a two-mile drive to a video store uses a few hundred times more energy than shipping DVDs 200 miles away.
One reason is that Netflix uses a mail service that would operate regardless of whether its DVDs are among the deliveries. The same argument could be true for larger or heavier products, said Lindsay Clinton, senior manager at SustainAbility, a London-based consulting firm.
Other types of ecommerce use more energy than one would expect, however. The previously cited study in the Journal of Industrial Ecology found that the energy consumed while browsing Netflix’s website in a comfortable environment for 30 minutes would exceed the energy spent delivering the DVDs, and is roughly equivalent to driving a hybrid car to a store half a mile away.
Most young, sharing-economy companies probably haven’t done the math to suss out the energy intensity of their operations. But they sometimes have economic incentives to weed out inefficiencies.
Online retailers may want to find more efficient way to pack and ship their products given that those costs make up a big chunk of their total operational costs. To control its expenses, Spark Box Toys doesn’t offer outsized items such as easels, and it standardizes the number and types of toys it ships, Gover noted.
Still, one thing is for sure: reducing energy consumption, while a noble goal, simply isn’t among the top factors determining Netflix-like businesses’ profitability. A business that can’t make a profit won’t last long no matter how sustainable it is.
And the remote-rental model has proven tricky, Netflix notwithstanding. Online toy rental service Toygaroo closed in 2012 after getting funding from Mark Cuban and Robert Herjavec; and Baby Plays, which started out renting toys, has switched to selling used toys – and doesn’t appear to have any toys for sale on its site at this time. San Francisco-based Artify.it shut down its art-rental service last year and now sells prints and original artwork. Of course, the broader sharing economy has also had its share of failures: New York City-based Loosecubes, which allowed people to rent desks and other open office space, also shuttered. Ride-sharing startup Ridejoy in December said it would halt its operations, and Zimride, a carpooling startup, changed its business model to an on-demand service like Lyft’s.  But several major players, such as Netflix and Zipcar, have also turned profits: Zipcar reported $14.7m in net income for 2012 before Avis Budget Group snatched it up for $500m in early 2013. Privately held Airbnb also has grown tremendously, but has run into legal issues, and doesn’t disclose its income or profit. For now, many sharing-economy businesses are too young to be profitable. And it’s too soon to tell whether the Netflix model is likely to end up with a higher or lower success rate than other options.
One of the key decisions entrepreneurs eyeing the Netflix model must make is whether to own, warehouse and rent their products or become matchmakers who bring owners and borrowers together for peer-to-peer sharing. Opinions may differ on which option is more sustainable.  Anecdotal evidence shows that companies that have their own inventories have an easier time maintaining the quality of the goods they offer, which could mean less time and money spent on dealing with customer complaints. “The subscription model’s benefits include strong quality and inventory control by the company,” said Colin Strong, managing director of German market research firm GfK. “Companies that own the products eliminate the disputes and trust issues with using someone else’s personal stuff.” ThredUp serves as a good example. The San Francisco company, which offers used clothing, shifted its model from peer-to-peer sharing. It now buys and cleans the clothes before re-selling them.
Aside from environmental impact, there’s also social impact to consider. The Netflix model does lead eliminate jobs, if it’s successful, Clinton said. In Netflix’s case, the company first beat competitors who operate retail outlets and then embraced streaming services that reduced the number of video distribution centers, she said. “It loses social sustainability on that front,“ she said.
Meanwhile, the idea of sharing stuff and making money in the process has sent business-minded people to seek new turfs where the model can work. Need parking space? You can pay to use someone’s driveway. Need power tools? You can rent them instead of buying them. Any other resource-intensive items that people could let strangers give a whirl?
“People who have swimming pools should share them,“ Clinton said with a laugh.
