How Much Is Amazon Prime, and Is It Worth the Cost? - NerdWallet
We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free.
So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners.
Many or all of the products featured here are from our partners who compensate us. This influences which products we write about and where and how the product appears on a page. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money.
If you want to shop the next Amazon Prime Day, you'll need an Amazon Prime membership. There are lots of perks to Prime, but it costs to subscribe. A standard Amazon Prime membership is $139 per year — perhaps a steep price to pay for free 2-day shipping. But if you’re a bookworm, a video and music streamer or just someone who shops online often, the benefits might outweigh the costs.
To help you decide whether it’s a good deal for you, we explain what you get when you go Prime.
Amazon Prime is a subscription service from Amazon. It gives members access to exclusive shopping and entertainment services, discounts and more.

The cost of an Amazon Prime membership depends on the plan you choose, but you can try it for free for 30 days.
Here’s a breakdown of the payment plans and what they include:
Prime annual membership: $139 per year. Those who pay an annual lump sum for the full membership will spend less in the long run.
Prime monthly membership: $14.99 per month. If you want full Prime benefits but prefer to spread out your payments, you’ll pay about $180 a year. If you receive qualifying government assistance, you can get Prime Access, which offers the same benefits as a Prime membership, for $6.99 per month.
Prime Student membership: If you’re a student with a valid school email address, you can get a free six-month trial of Prime Student and a discounted membership fee of $69 per year (or $7.49 per month) after that.
Prime Video membership: $8.99 per month. This membership is just for Amazon's unlimited TV show and movie streaming service. It’ll cost you around $108 per year. In January, Amazon started including ads on Prime Video shows and movies. For $2.99 more a month, you can upgrade to an ad-free plan. 
Heads up: Amazon keeps your credit card information on file when you sign up, so if you decide you don’t want the membership once your free trial expires, make sure to log in to your account and cancel it. Otherwise, you’ll be charged the membership fee.
Amazon Prime’s key benefit is its free two-day shipping on millions of eligible items. In some cities, you can even get same-day delivery on eligible orders. While Amazon does offer free standard shipping to non-Prime customers on orders that meet a minimum threshold of eligible items, it takes five to eight business days for those orders to arrive.
But just as the company has expanded from a simple bookstore to an e-commerce empire, so has Prime extended its benefits to include:
You can stream thousands of TV shows and movies with ads for free using Prime Video. Members can also subscribe to channels like HBO and Showtime for an additional cost.
Members can choose from over a thousand books, comics and magazines to read for free. The service is available on Kindle and Fire tablets, as well any iOS or Android device with the Kindle app.
Prime members get access to Amazon Music Prime, which lets you shuffle play any artist, album or playlist ad-free from the full catalog of over 100 million songs. You’ll need to step up to Amazon Music Unlimited to play any song on-demand, which costs $9.99 a month for Prime members.
Prime members get an extra 10% discount on eligible sale items at Whole Foods Market, in stores and online.
With Prime Gaming, you get access to free PC games and in-game content, plus a monthly Twitch channel subscription.
» MORE: How to watch TV online for free
Prime members get the exclusive perk of shopping annual Prime Day deals, which now come twice a year. During the rest of the year, you’ll get access to Lightning Deals with a 30-minute head start on non-Prime members.
A Prime membership gives you unlimited, full-resolution photo storage and 5 GB video storage. Your photos will be backed up through the Amazon Photos app, which you can access from both your computer and mobile device.
As an Amazon Prime member, you have access to Amazon's own line of baby wipes, vitamins and supplements.
Free for all Prime members, Amazon Family offers family-oriented coupons and deals, including up to 20% off diapers per month with Subscribe and Save, and a 15% baby registry completion discount.
If multiple people in your household use Amazon Prime you can consider getting Amazon Household. With Amazon Household, you can share benefits you choose with your kids and manage their profiles restricting content where necessary. For those with kids who enjoy streaming, you can share digital content using the Family Library. 
There’s also the option of sharing with another adult, be it a spouse or friend. However, you’ll need to link your individual accounts using Amazon Household and share the benefit payment. 
Here are a couple of the rules you should know in terms of how many family members you can add. 
A maximum of two adults can join Amazon Household and they must have their own Amazon accounts. 
Up to four teens between the ages of 13 and 17 can have their own individual Amazon logins and can use it to shop or stream content. That includes free Prime Video, Amazon Music, and Twitch Prime.
A maximum of four children can be added to Amazon Household but they cannot shop. You can, however, share eBooks, apps, and games with them.
Whether Prime’s membership perks justify the price tag depends on which ones appeal to you and how much you use them. Let’s start by evaluating two of Prime's biggest draws: shipping and streaming entertainment.
Shipping. If you spent more than $139 in shipping fees last year, well, there’s your answer.
Streaming entertainment. Amazon Prime, which includes Prime Video, is cheaper than both the commercial-free Hulu plan and the standard Netflix plan when you opt for the annual membership at $139 a year. Prime also includes access to a fairly robust music streaming service in Amazon Music Prime, albeit with shuffle-only playback. If the video and music selection is wide enough that you’d consider forgoing a subscription to other services, you’ll recoup the cost of Amazon Prime.
There are other considerations to take into account, such as the convenience of having your items shipped in days instead of weeks, or not having to go to the store to buy essentials like paper towels.
Keep in mind, too, that you can share your shipping benefits with another household member. If you split the cost with a roommate, for example, you can effectively cut the cost down to under $70 a year — a pretty amazing deal. Free two-day shipping for less than $6 a month is well worth it for most shoppers.
The best way to figure out if an Amazon Prime membership is worthwhile: Sign up for the free trial. Then, you can decide whether to make the investment.
Read more
Read more
Read more
Download the app
Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly.
NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc.
Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations.
NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539
NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812
Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses
NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105
