Amazon Prime: Is It Worth $139 Per Year? Here's Our Analysis
Personal Finance
Credit Monitoring
Taxes
Help for Low Credit Scores
Investing

Follow Select

It's likely that you and nearly everyone you know have an Amazon Prime membership, or at least access to one. Statista estimates that more than 76.6 million households have an account, after all.
The popular subscription service costs $139 per year for annual members. Those paying for Prime on a monthly basis pay $14.99 per month, while those with Prime Student accounts pay $69 per year.
Having an Amazon Prime membership might seem like a rite of passage — or sometimes an absolute necessity — but is it really worth an extra line on your monthly or yearly budget?
Below, CNBC Select breaks down the rewards, benefits and perks of having an Amazon Prime account, plus a few things to keep in mind if you're on the fence about purchasing the service.
The subscription service is so well-received because of the many benefits it offers its members — most notably, perhaps, is its complimentary two-day (or sometimes faster) shipping perk. But as the cost of doing business continues to rise, companies including Amazon are also increasing their prices.
All current Amazon Prime members will pay the following rates when their membership is up for renewal (they're already in effect for new members):
Those with Amazon Prime Student accounts can expect to pay the following rate:
If you're currently on a government assistance program such as EBT or Medicaid, you may qualify for a discounted Amazon Prime Access membership of $6.99 per month — click here to find out more.
No one can argue against the value that Amazon Prime delivers. JPMorgan analyst Doug Anmuth estimated the true value of an Amazon Prime membership to be worth around $1,000 if you were to fully price out each service.
Here's a peek at some of the perks that come with Amazon Prime — visit the website to view the entire list of available benefits.
Learn more: The shopper's guide to Amazon Prime: Benefits, prices, plans
Prime membership comes with a seemingly never-ending list of benefits, but how does it really stack up against similar services? Unfortunately, there aren't too many 'true' competitors out there since Amazon Prime offers such a robust amount of perks, although that may not be the case for long as other retailers continue to launch and test their own subscription models. Here's how it holds up against Walmart+.
Walmart+ offers a similar subscription model where you can have orders delivered quickly to your door. Walmart+ members receive the following benefits:
Walmart+ costs $12.95 per month or $98 per year, which is moderately less expensive compared to Amazon Prime. If you're the type of consumer who simply wants to receive your products as quickly as possible and prefers shopping at Walmart, without needing any of Prime's additional benefits, Walmart+ may be a better fit. However, Amazon Prime offers similar shipping services and a much more widespread list of benefits for about $40 more per year.
Learn more: What is Walmart Plus? Membership benefits, prices and more
If you're unsure about whether or not Walmart+ is right for you, try signing up for a 30-day free trial. If you enjoy using the service and want to keep it for yourself, consider applying for the Platinum Card® from American Express, which offers a monthly statement credit to cover the cost of Walmart+.
Earn 5X Membership Rewards® Points for flights booked directly with airlines or with American Express Travel up to $500,000 on these purchases per calendar year, 5X Membership Rewards® Points on prepaid hotels booked with American Express Travel, 1X points on all other eligible purchases
Earn 80,000 Membership Rewards® Points after you spend $8,000 on eligible purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months of Card Membership. Apply and select your preferred metal Card design: classic Platinum, Platinum x Kehinde Wiley, or Platinum x Julie Mehretu.
$695
None
See Pay Over Time APR
N/A
None
Excellent/Good
See rates and fees, terms apply.
Read our The Platinum Card® from American Express review.
There is no service out there quite like Amazon Prime, which could make it a difficult decision to part ways with it, especially if you're taking advantage of many of the benefits. Thankfully, there are a few ways you can save on your Amazon Prime subscription.
The simplest method is to split your subscription with friends and family. My family and I share the cost of our Prime account and use Venmo to pay one another. Instead of paying $139 per year, I end up paying only one-third of that since we are splitting the cost three ways. Amazon even has a guide on how you share your Prime benefits on its website.
You may also want to consider applying for one of the Amazon Prime credit cards, each of which comes with immediate Amazon credits that can help offset the cost of the membership and earn you additional rewards on your purchases.
3% cash back at Amazon.com, Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market; 3% back on purchases made through Chase Travel; 2% back at restaurants, gas stations and local transit and commuting; 2% back on local transit and commuting, including rideshare; 1% back on all other purchases
Earn a $50 Gift Card instantly upon approval.
$0
None
19.49% to 27.49% variable
4%, $5 minimum
None
Excellent/Good
Terms apply.
Rewards totals incorporate the points earned from the welcome bonus
Earn unlimited 5% back at Amazon.com, Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market and on Chase Travel purchases with an eligible Prime membership, unlimited 2% back at gas stations, restaurants, and on local transit and commuting (including rideshare), 10% back or more on a rotating selection of products and categories at Amazon.com, unlimited 1% back on all other purchases
Get a $100 Amazon Gift Card (or more) instantly upon approval exclusively for Prime members
$0 (but Prime membership is required)
None
19.49% - 27.49% variable
Either $5 or 4% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater.
None
Excellent/Good
Terms apply.
Information about the Prime Visa has been collected independently by Select and have not been reviewed or provided by the issuer prior to publication; if you purchase something through Select links, we may earn a commission.
Rewards totals incorporate the points earned from the welcome bonus
Amazon Prime can be appealing to many types of consumers, including those who live in either urban and rural areas. It's great for those who prefer shopping online rather than in person, those who want to keep their shopping all with one retailer, those who want free and quick shipping and for anyone who enjoys shopping at Whole Foods Market. It's also worth looking at if you're a food-delivery fanatic who may have already subscribed to a service like Grubhub+ or Doordash's Dashpass (normally $9.99/mo), since you'll now get one year of free food delivery through Grubhub+.
Even if only a few of Amazon Prime's benefits appeal to you, their utility could make the cost of the service easily worth it. If you were to pay for even a few of the services individually you'll likely be paying more than if you were just to subscribe to Prime itself.
That said, if you rarely order items online or aren't interested in other Prime perks outside of quick shipping, you may be better off either paying the shipping cost per item or opting for a more affordable service like Walmart+. Alternatively, to be even more cost-efficient, you could always ask a friend who already has an Amazon Prime account to order the product for you.
So, how do you consider subscribing to Amazon Prime and making the price seem ''worth it?"
On my regular, non-shared, non-Prime Amazon account, a pack of toothpaste would cost $5.99 to ship to my home in one day. If each order is going to add six more dollars in shipping costs, that means Amazon Prime would pay for itself in 23 orders, or an average of two orders per month.
With a Student membership, it makes even more sense to pay for Prime. Ordering a textbook for dental school, for instance, would cost an extra $7.64 in shipping charges, so you would have to order roughly 10 textbooks a year to make the service worth your while.
Shipping costs will vary depending on the item and how quickly you want it, but if you're choosing two-day shipping often, you'll likely come out ahead with Prime if you order online more than two dozen times a year. Remember that you also can get free shipping from Amazon without a Prime membership when your order has $25 or more of eligible items, however, your order will take five to eight days to be delivered.
If you value any of the other benefits outside of speedy shipping you'll be even closer to Prime being worth it for you. Plus, if you're using the Prime Visa, Amazon Prime can quickly pay for itself with its 5% cash-back earnings on Amazon purchases.
Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here.
Amazon Prime has now become a normal line item on most American consumers' budgets as we've quickly adopted online shopping as a way of life. Whether you're splitting the cost with your friends and family or using a rewards credit card to save on the membership cost, Amazon Prime is likely worth having if you shop online regularly. That said, if you're currently paying for the service but rarely take advantage of its many benefits, this may be a good time to cancel your membership and save $139 for your emergency fund instead.
At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every personal finance guide is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of personal finance products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics.
Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date.
For rates and fees of the Platinum Card from American Express, click here.
Information about the Amazon Credit Cards has been collected independently by Select and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer prior to publication; if you purchase something through Select links, we may earn a commission.
© 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.
