Best Amazon Prime Membership Deal: $6.99 Subscription, Six Months Free
Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter
Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter
The e-commerce giant hopes to convince shoppers to enroll in its program, which offers perks such as same-day shipping and early access to shopping events.

							By 

	Tim Chan


	If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, The Hollywood Reporter may receive an affiliate commission.	

	The holiday shopping season is officially back — and the online retailer is getting a head start on the deals by offering its lowest price yet for a Prime membership.

	New users can get a generous 30-day free trial to Amazon Prime, which lets you test out all the Prime member benefits for a full month without paying.



Amazon also hopes to get Prime members into the fold after their free trial is up, with new subscription pricing starting from just $6.99. A monthly Prime membership normally costs $15, so the new Prime membership deal saves you more than 50% off the regular price.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	












	
	Lifestyle
			



	
		
					The 20+ Best Women's Subscription Boxes That Also Make Great Mother's Day Gifts		
			














	
	Lifestyle
			



	
		
					The Best Post-Desert Recovery Sanctuaries in LA, From Four Seasons' Massage Menu to Drip's On-the-Go IV Hydration		
			








	The $6.99 offer applies to individuals who receive SNAP, Medicaid or other qualifying government assistance Check your eligibility here to get a Prime membership for just $7 a month.

	College students and those under 24 years of age, meantime, can qualify for the Amazon Prime student discount, which gets you six months(!) of free access to Amazon Prime without having to pay a single cent. After that, Amazon’s student pricing gets you a Prime membership for just $7.49 a month. 



	You’ll need to enter proof of age, or proof of enrollment in an accredited program to qualify for the Prime student discount. The six-month free trial is the most generous Amazon offer we’ve seen and the best free trial deal online.

	An Amazon Prime membership is one of the best values online, with dozens of exclusive offers and benefits reserved for Prime members. 

	The new Prime member deal comes as Amazon unveils its deals for its Black Friday shopping event. Expect thousands of discounts on beauty, fashion, home goods, electronics and more, with sale prices reserved for Prime members.

	Amazon Prime members also get free two-day shipping, same-day delivery and no-rush shipping on millions of products on the site, and Amazon now offers free two-hour delivery on Amazon Fresh or Whole Foods Market grocery delivery in select U.S. cities. 

	Other Prime member benefits include access to all the TV shows and movies streaming on Prime Video, including The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, The Rings of Power and the recent hit film Air. Prime members can stream everything on-demand from their TV, computer, tablet or phone.

	Lesser-known or “hidden” Prime benefits include exclusive “Try Before You Buy” and personal shopper service on select clothing, footwear and accessories; discounts on subscriptions; and 5 percent cash back on purchases with an Amazon Prime store card. (Amazon in 2022 announced it would close all of its 4-Star, Amazon Books and Pop Up stores.)

	










	Members also get secure unlimited photo storage in Amazon Drive; can borrow books and magazines from Prime Reading on a Fire tablet or Kindle e-reader; and can stream thousands of songs, podcasts and playlists through Prime Music.

Related: The Best E-Book Readers for Every Type of Bookworm

	Amazon’s pricing has stayed the same since it announced its most recent price increase in February 2022. While the site has always offered a free trial, the discounted subscription price for returning users is relatively new, which makes this a deal worth taking advantage of. See full pricing details here.

	New users can get a 30-day free trial to Amazon Prime here. 
Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day
Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day
Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter
Send us a tip using our anonymous form.
