What Is Amazon Prime Video? How and Why You Should Sign up







When you buy through our links, Business Insider may earn an affiliate commission. Learn more

Amazon Prime Video is an on-demand streaming service with many popular movies and shows, including hit original series like "The Boys," "Reacher," and "The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power." The service is also home to critically acclaimed films like "Saltburn."
Prime Video is one of the many benefits of an Amazon Prime membership, making it an especially good value for frequent online shoppers. However, as of January 29, Prime members now have to shell out an extra $3 a month to get ad-free streaming. 
To help you decide whether the service is a good fit for your needs, we broke down all the ins and outs of Amazon Prime Video, including details on all of the service's features, supported devices, and popular exclusives. 

                                  Prime Video has thousands of movies and TV shows, including popular original series and films you won't find anywhere else. The service is available as part of a full Amazon Prime membership for $15/month or as a stand-alone plan for $9/month. Ad-free streaming costs an extra $3/month.
                                
Prime Video is a subscription streaming service with thousands of on-demand movies and shows, including several original titles you won't find on any other platforms. The service is included with a full Amazon Prime membership, and it's offered as a standalone service.
In addition to all the films and series you get included with your subscription, Prime Video lets customers rent or buy more titles for an extra fee. The service also lets you sign up for over 100 premium channels to expand your library even more. 
Prime Video is included with an Amazon Prime membership for $15 a month or $139 a year. The service is also available as a stand-alone subscription for $9 a month. As of January 29, Amazon now incorporates limited commercials when streaming content through Prime Video. In order to unlock an ad-free streaming experience, you need to pay an extra $3 a month.
Students at US colleges and universities can save 50% and pay just $7.49 a month or $69 a year for Amazon Prime with Prime Student. EBT and Medicaid cardholders can qualify to receive a discounted Amazon Prime rate of $7 a month.
You can sign up for Prime Video as part of an Amazon Prime membership by visiting the Amazon Prime sign-up page. To sign up for Prime Video as a stand-alone service, you can use this Prime Video sign-up page. 
If you already have an existing Prime Video membership, you can upgrade to the new ad-free plan by visiting your account's Prime Video Settings page. There, you'll find a button marked "Go ad free," which will allow you to pay an extra $3 a month to unlock commercial-free streaming.
New members can get a free trial of Amazon Prime — which includes Prime Video — for 30 days. That's one of the longest free trial periods you can get for any streaming service. College students get an even longer trial and can claim six months of the service for free.
After the trial period, you can continue paying the regular rate or cancel your plan. You'll need to cancel your subscription before the end of the trial in order to avoid paying for your next month. There is no free trial specific to just Prime Video without Amazon Prime.
You can watch Prime Video on your web browser, iOS and Android phones, and more. Here's a list of devices compatible with Prime Video:
At $9 a month, Prime Video's ad-supported plan is more expensive than most competing services with ads. However, at $12 a month, Prime Video's new ad-free plan costs less than ad-free Disney Plus, Max, Hulu, or Netflix options. 
Unlike most streaming services, Prime Video also lets you pay extra to purchase individual movies and shows that aren't already included with your subscription. You can then keep them in your Prime account to watch on demand. This is a feature that only Apple TV Plus also offers.
Prime Video is also the only streaming service you can get as part of an Amazon Prime membership. If you frequently have Amazon items shipped to your home, the addition of Amazon Prime for $6 more a month is a no-brainer. 
Prime Video supports a number of advanced video and audio formats, including high dynamic range (HDR), 4K Ultra HD, and Dolby Atmos. 
All HDR titles use the HDR10 and HDR10+ formats. Another HDR format, Dolby Vision, is also supported on a select number of titles.
When it comes to advanced audio, Prime Video supports Dolby Atmos on some shows and movies, but the selection is nowhere near as big as it is on Netflix or Disney Plus. The info page for each title typically reveals whether it supports audio formats like Atmos. 
You should check your devices first to see if your video and audio gear will play Prime Video content in these advanced formats.


Prime Video is home to a wide range of original series and films, as well as select titles from studios like MGM, Paramount, Warner Media, Universal, Lionsgate, Sony, and more. 
Some notable original shows developed exclusively for Prime Video include hits like:
Meanwhile, the service's rotating library of studio films includes big releases like "A Knock at the Cabin," "Cocaine Bear," "Bones and All," and "The Black Phone." You can also stream classic shows like "Downton Abbey," "House," "Will & Grace,"  and more.
The streaming service is also making ground in the sports market. In 2022, Prime Video became the exclusive broadcaster for Thursday Night Football.
In addition to its on-demand streaming library, Prime Video offers several channel add-ons. For an additional monthly price, subscribers can add premium services to their Prime Video membership and unlock even more movies and shows. 
Some premium networks that are available as Prime Video add-on channels include Starz, Showtime, Cinemax, and MGM+. You can even add other streaming services, like Max, Discovery Plus, and Paramount Plus, to Prime Video. 
There's also Amazon Freevee, which is an ad-supported streaming platform with more movies and shows, including originals and FAST (free ad-supported streaming television) channels. You can access Freevee within the Prime Video app and via a standalone app.
You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here.Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.
Jump to

Main content
Search
Account

