Amazon Prime Lite subscription gets a significant price cut. Check new price and benefits here | Mint
 Amazon has significantly reduced the price of its Prime Lite membership, possibly in an effort to further widen the gap between the ad-supported subscription and the regular Prime membership.
   The Amazon Prime Lite membership is now available in India for an annual price of  ₹799 as compared to the original launch price of  ₹999. Meanwhile, the e-commerce giant has decided to keep the prices of its Amazon Prime plan unchanged, with prices starting at  ₹299 for a one-month subscription,  ₹599 for a three-month subscription and  ₹1,499 for a one-year subscription.
 Amazon Prime Lite subscription benefits:Amazon Prime Lite membership allows users to take advantage of free one-day delivery, two-day delivery, scheduled delivery and same-day delivery from Amazon, and does not require a minimum order value to qualify for free delivery. In addition, like regular Prime users, Amazon Prime Lite customers are also eligible for a cashback of  ₹25 if they opt for no-rush delivery.        Prime Lite customers also get early access to Amazon's Lightning Deals and Deals of the Day which are only available to Prime customers.     Prime Lite membership also allows customers to stream unlimited videos, movies and TV shows from India and around the world. However, there is a limit on the number of streaming devices, allowing only two devices in HD quality and users will also have to put up with advertisements while streaming on Prime Video.    However, Prime Lite customers do not get access to Amazon's Prime Music, Prime Reading and Prime Gaming services and pay a delivery fee of  ₹175 for morning delivery as compared to  ₹50 paid by regular Amazon Prime users.




You may be interested in












    In summary, Amazon Prime Lite membership offers much of the same benefits as regular Prime membership with an ad-supported 720p viewing experience on Prime Video and without access to Prime Reading, Prime Music and Prime Gaming. 
Milestone Alert!
Livemint tops charts as the fastest growing news website in the world 🌏 Click here  to know more.

 Unlock a world of Benefits! From insightful newsletters to real-time stock tracking, breaking news and a personalized newsfeed - it's all here, just a click away!  Login Now!




                Catch all the  Technology News and Updates on Live Mint.
        Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates & Live Business News.
    
More
Less
 
		Published: 22 Dec 2023, 07:06 AM IST
	
Topics You May Be Interested In 



 amazon


 amazon prime


 amazon prime lite membership


 amazon prime lite subscription


 amazon prime lite pric


 amazon prime vs prime lite


 amazon prime lite vs amazon prime


 amazon prime lite subscription price


 amazon prime plans













Amazon Prime Lite membership allows users to take advantage of free one-day delivery, two-day delivery, scheduled delivery and same-day delivery from Amazon, and does not require a minimum order value to qualify for free delivery. In addition, like regular Prime users, Amazon Prime Lite customers are also eligible for a cashback of  ₹25 if they opt for no-rush delivery.
   Prime Lite customers also get early access to Amazon's Lightning Deals and Deals of the Day which are only available to Prime customers.
   Prime Lite membership also allows customers to stream unlimited videos, movies and TV shows from India and around the world. However, there is a limit on the number of streaming devices, allowing only two devices in HD quality and users will also have to put up with advertisements while streaming on Prime Video.
   However, Prime Lite customers do not get access to Amazon's Prime Music, Prime Reading and Prime Gaming services and pay a delivery fee of  ₹175 for morning delivery as compared to  ₹50 paid by regular Amazon Prime users.
   In summary, Amazon Prime Lite membership offers much of the same benefits as regular Prime membership with an ad-supported 720p viewing experience on Prime Video and without access to Prime Reading, Prime Music and Prime Gaming.
Milestone Alert!
Livemint tops charts as the fastest growing news website in the world 🌏 Click here  to know more.

 Unlock a world of Benefits! From insightful newsletters to real-time stock tracking, breaking news and a personalized newsfeed - it's all here, just a click away!  Login Now!

Download the Mint app and read premium stories
Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.
You are just one step away from creating your watchlist!
Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image. Remove some to bookmark this image.
Your session has expired, please login again.
You are now subscribed to our newsletters. In case you can’t find any email from our side, please check the spam folder.
This is a subscriber only feature Subscribe Now to get daily updates on WhatsApp
Start Investing in Stocks, Mutual Funds, IPOs, and more

                I'm interested in opening a Trading and Demat Account and am comfortable with the online account opening process. I'm open to receiving promotional messages through various channels, including calls, emails & SMS.
            
Start Investing in Stocks, Mutual Funds, IPOs, and more
Enter OTP


               I'm interested in opening a Trading and Demat Account and am comfortable with the online account opening process. I'm open to receiving promotional messages through various channels, including calls, emails & SMS.
            
The team will get in touch with you shortly
 NTPC share price 355.702.80% 
 Power Grid Corporation Of India share price 303.902.63% 
 Asian Paints share price 2,772.802.28% 
 ITC share price 433.201.88% 
 Bharti Airtel share price 1,298.051.76% 
 Tata Consultancy Services share price 3,895.85-1.62% 
 Infosys share price 1,425.15-0.95% 
 Wipro share price 451.35-0.79% 
 HDFC Bank share price 1,437.60-0.74% 
 Mahindra & Mahindra share price 2,196.00-0.73% 
  Tata Steel share price  162.35  0.22% 
  ITC share price  433.20  1.88% 
  State Bank Of India share price  818.35  -0.16% 
  HDFC Bank share price  1,437.60  -0.74% 
  Tata Motors share price  1,046.85  1.62% 
