
    Is Amazon Prime still worth it? All the pros and cons - CBS News
Watch CBS News

    By
                        
              Rachel Center


Updated on:  March 22, 2024 / 11:56 AM EDT
          / Essentials
        

            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
          
Amazon's first-ever Big Spring Sale is on, from now until Monday, March 25. The retail giant marked down prices on seasonal spring items across various departments, ranging from fashion to spring cleaning essentials. There are discounts on Amazon Alexa devices too, such as the Echo
Although this sale is open to all shoppers, Amazon Prime members will be able to score some exclusive discounts. They'll also be entitled to the retailer's famous fast and free shipping. If you aren't a Prime member but are considering getting a membership for the chance to save more on spring essentials, we broke down all the pros and cons to help you make a more informed decision. Read on to see all of what's included in an Amazon Prime membership, including access to Prime Video, grocery delivery at Whole Foods and more. 
Yes -- in most cases, the net benefits outweigh the cost. If you're still not sure, we've broken down the biggest benefits below, and how often you'll need to use them to make the monthly cost worth your while.
If you order products from Amazon multiple times per month, that alone is worth keeping your Prime membership. The only other way you can get free shipping on Amazon is if your orders total more than $35. Otherwise, you have to pay $6.99 for standard shipping (prices by zip code may vary). 
Conversely, if you place three orders per month at less than $35 per order, the cost of shipping without Prime ($6.99 base) amounts to more than the monthly cost of Prime with ad-free Prime Video ($17.98). 
Even if your monthly orders equate to more than $35 (qualifying for free shipping without Prime), the one-, two-, and even same-day delivery you get with Prime is worth it. You won't find faster shipping times with most other retailers. 
The upshot: If you rely on Amazon often for everyday buys or bargains, such as discounted household essentials, or if you just love the convenience of getting your orders fast, keep Prime.
Amazon owns Whole Foods, so your Prime membership includes perks that can be used at the grocery chain. Prime offers you some discounts at the store, but the main draw is grocery delivery. You can only do Whole Foods grocery delivery if you have a Prime account. If Whole Foods is your go-to grocery store, and you do grocery delivery often, especially weekly, your Amazon Prime account is worth it. 
Amazon's Rx Pass allows you to get select medications for a flat fee of $5 per month. With Prime, you also can get two-day free shipping for prescriptions bought through Amazon Pharmacy, which beats having to wait in line at the IRL pharmacy for 20 minutes. Plus, with Prime, you can compare prescription prices between more than 60,000 pharmacies, which may save you up to 80% off on your medication. If you rely on these kind of discounts to save on pricier prescriptions, it is worth it to keep Amazon Prime. 
If you shop Amazon's Prime Days every year, keep your membership. Prime Day's discounts are exclusive to Prime members. This is Amazon's biggest sales event, ensuring some of the best discounts the site advertises all year. Not only that, but Prime members get exclusive discounts daily on the site, as well as 30-minute early access to Lightning Deals (these deals can last between 30 minutes to an entire day). The amount of money you save on these deals could easily equal to (or exceed) the cost of your monthly Amazon Prime membership. 
Prime Day 2024 has yet to be announced, but based on previous years' timing, we expect it to happen sometime in mid-July 2024.
We think yes. If you didn't know, Prime Video now includes ads, and the only way to opt out of (most) commercials is by paying an additional $2.99 fee per month. Opting to pay the extra fee would bring Amazon Prime to nearly $12 per month. Although any price increase is inconvenient, we think paying the extra fee may be worth it for some users. 
Prime Video members get access to tens of thousands of movies and TV shows, including popular Amazon Originals TV shows, such as "The Summer I Turned Pretty" as well as the Emmy-winning "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel" and "Fleabag". You can also stream Oscar-nominated movies, including "Manchester By The Sea" and "Sound Of Metal". 
Plus, compared to other popular streaming services with ad-free options, including Netflix (from $15.49 to $22.99 per month) and Hulu ($17.99 per month), Prime Video without ads ($11.98) is still the cheapest. 
If you want to go ad-free, you can make that change within the account settings of your Prime Account or the Prime Video app found on Fire TVs, smart TVs, game consoles and set-top boxes. Ad-free, however, doesn't include trailers that run before a movie or TV show (you can skip them), nor does it exclude ads from live events, including sports, whatever you're watching on Amazon Freevee, or a third-party streaming service that you add to your Amazon account (that isn't an ad-free subscription). 
Amazon hasn't outlined on their site exactly how many ads you can expect if you opt out of ad-free, but they said you can expect them before and during playback. The Wall Street Journal reports the average ad load per hour is expected to be between two and three-and-half minutes.
If you're vehemently against ads and someone who uses their Prime Video weekly to find movies and TV shows to watch, it's worth it to keep the streaming service and upgrade to ad-free. But if the extra $2.99 for Prime Video Ad Free will set you back -- which is understandable if you subscribe to multiple streaming services that can cost upwards of $45 or more monthly -- consider keeping the streaming services with ads and see how you adjust. 
People who only access Prime Video one or two times per month may find that they can live without it. If there's a specific series or some movies you want to watch on Prime, you can always get the streaming service to watch it and then cancel afterward.
Rachel Center is a writer with more than eight years of experience creating lifestyle content for brands such as Better Homes & Gardens, Real Simple and Apartment Therapy.

First published on February 1, 2024 / 6:00 AM EST


          The Denver Nuggets face the Minnesota Timberwolves for Game 4 of the teams' NBA Playoffs series tonight.
        

          Here's how and when to watch Game 4 of the New York Knicks vs. Indiana Pacers NBA Playoffs series today.
        

          The Canucks and Oilers meet again for Game 3 of the NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs. Here's how and when to watch.
        

          The Carolina Hurricanes must win Game 4 against the NY Rangers tonight or face elimination from Stanley Cup Playoffs.
        

          Find how and when to watch the exciting Game 3 showdown between the Boston Celtics and Cleveland Cavaliers tonight.
        

          Hinge is one of the most popular dating apps, so we signed up. Read our review to find out if you should too.
        

          From meal kits to monthly makeup subscriptions, give Mom a last-minute virtual gift that can be delivered online.
        

          Find out how and when to watch Game 3 of the Oklahoma City Thunder vs. Dallas Mavericks NBA Playoffs series today.
        

          Our tech expert put two of the most powerful tablets head-to-head: Apple iPad Pro and Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra.
        

          A remarkable judge of talent, Corman hired such aspiring filmmakers as Francis Ford Coppola, Ron Howard, James Cameron and Martin Scorsese.
        

          From mariachi serenades to visits to local churches to shared meals, here's how people around the globe honor the family matriarch on Mother's Day.
        

          Nearly two decades after an intoxicated and half naked William Greer confessed to killing Tammy Myers, her daughter is determined to see her mother's killer brought to justice.
        

          The armed suspect died during the encounter, police said.
        

          After being stabbed in the face, neck and chest, Donna Ongsiako mustered the strength to climb up a staircase, call 911 and describe her unlikely attacker for investigators.
        

          A'ja Wilson, of the Las Vegas Aces, has joined a roster of women athletes who have partnered with Nike to develop signature collections.
        

          The $5 meal could include a choice of a McChicken, a McDouble or four-piece chicken nuggets along with fries and a drink.
        

          Due to bankruptcies and other problems, retailers plan to close almost 3,200 stores this year, up 24% from a year ago.
        

          Huy Fung Foods said its peppers are "too green" to make its signature sriracha sauce, forcing it to suspend production until September.
        

          Annual wildfires and flooding are keeping major insurance companies from covering homeowners in California and Florida.
        

          The following is a transcript of an interview with Secretary of State Antony Blinken that aired on May 12, 2024.
        

          Kennedy said he now supports abortions up until the point of fetal viability.
        

          At the same time, the three are accusing each other of being pro-transgender.
        

          Minnesota officially adopted its new state flag on Saturday, making the old flag history. So what happens to the old flag now that it is obsolete?
        

          Michael Cohen's testimony in former President Donald Trump's criminal trial in New York suggests the prosecution is reaching the home stretch of its case.
        

          Eighty-four million Americans had a mental disorder in 2022, while 34 million people had a substance use disorder. About 11 million people dealt with both, but many did not receive professional treatment, partially because of a persistent stigma leading to silence and shame around mental health problems. Michelle Miller reports on how former congressman Patrick J. Kennedy and author Stephen Fried are hoping to make change with their new book.
        

          Some states are cracking down on claims by anti-abortion rights organizations that offer "abortion pill reversal" treatment.
        

          The parents of a U.K. toddler say it's "absolutely mind-blowing" to see their daughter, enrolled in a gene therapy trial, hear for the first time.
        

          Some of the strains in the "FLiRT" group are closely related to the JN.1 COVID variant from last winter.
        

          Seattle Mayor Bruce Harrell said that the facility would be supported by the Seattle Fire Department's overdose response team.
        

          The blaze in northeastern British Columbia started Friday and almost doubled in size by the following day, reaching about 4,200 acres.
        

          Victims of the devastating floods in northern Afghanistan are burying the dead and looking for the loved ones still missing.
        

          From mariachi serenades to visits to local churches to shared meals, here's how people around the globe honor the family matriarch on Mother's Day.
        

          Nemo beat Croatia's Baby Lasagna to the title by winning the most points from a combination of national juries and viewers around the world.
        

          The European Broadcasting Union said Swedish police were investigating "a complaint made by a female member of the production crew" against Klein.
        

          Correspondent Faith Salie reports on fashion's biggest night, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute Benefit, where designs ranged from artful flowers to artfully positioned sand.
        

          A new movie dramatizes the life and music of the charismatic British singer whose struggles with drugs and alcohol led to her death at age 27. Director Sam Taylor-Johnson and actress Marisa Abela describe capturing a complex life on film.
        

          A new movie dramatizes the life and music of British singer Amy Winehouse, the charismatic, multiple-Grammy-winner whose struggles with drugs and alcohol led to her death at the age of 27. Correspondent Seth Doane talks with director Sam Taylor-Johnson about capturing a complex life on film; and with actress Marisa Abela, who describes how she inhabited the role of Winehouse from the inside out.
        

          "Sunday Morning" remembers some of the notable figures who left us this week, including "B-movie" director Roger Corman, whose production company helped launch the careers of such filmmakers as Francis Ford Coppola, Martin Scorsese and James Cameron.
        

          The actress, starring in the comedy-drama "Appropriate," talks about how her mother helped set the stage for her dream of acting; and why she still hasn't watched herself in "American Crime Story: The People vs. O.J. Simpson."
        

          Everywhere you look, products are getting too complicated, with more and more features aimed at attracting consumers. For designers, it's a constant and complex balance to get it just right.
        

          Everywhere you look, products are getting too complicated, with more and more features aimed at attracting consumers. But designing things to do more can often lead to frustrated and unhappy customers. For designers, it's a constant and complex balance to get it just right. Correspondent David Pogue looks at how complicated lives – full of endless features – may be getting easier to navigate thanks to technology.
        

          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
        

          Apple's "Crush!" advertisement for the new iPad Pro features a myriad of artistic tools getting smashed in a large hydraulic press.
        

          The Ascension Healthcare Network, one of the nation's leading nonprofit and Catholic health systems, says a "cyber security event" disrupted its clinical operations Wednesday. Threat intelligence company Cyble says there have been 77 ransomware attacks on the U.S. health care sector since the beginning of February. CBS News homeland security and justice reporter Nicole Sganga joins to unpack the troubling trend.
        

          Parts of the country saw the aurora borealis on Friday night, and the dazzling show was expected to continue on Saturday night, according to experts.
        

          Geomagnetic storms can affect infrastructure, but may also bring an expanded viewing of the aurora borealis.
        

          Americans were being treated to a show of the northern lights this weekend from a powerful geomagnetic storm heading toward Earth.
        

          The parents of a U.K. toddler say it's "absolutely mind-blowing" to see their daughter, enrolled in a gene therapy trial, hear for the first time.
        

          Climeworks, a Swiss pioneer in the fast-growing field of CO2 capture and storage, launches operations at a new site on a dormant volcano.
        

          Nearly two decades after an intoxicated and half naked William Greer confessed to killing Tammy Myers, her daughter is determined to see her mother's killer brought to justice.
        

          The armed suspect died during the encounter, police said.
        

          After being stabbed in the face, neck and chest, Donna Ongsiako mustered the strength to climb up a staircase, call 911 and describe her unlikely attacker for investigators.
        

          The shooting occurred on Friday night inside a Regal Cinemas theater in Ohio, according to police.
        

          Witness testimony continued Friday in the murder trial of Karen Read, a Massachusetts woman accused of killing her police officer boyfriend, John O'Keefe, in 2022. Read has pleaded not guilty and her lawyers argue local law enforcement officials are framing her. CBS News Boston's Penny Kmitt has the latest on the testimony.
        

          Geomagnetic storms can affect infrastructure, but may also bring an expanded viewing of the aurora borealis.
        

          Americans were being treated to a show of the northern lights this weekend from a powerful geomagnetic storm heading toward Earth.
        

          The sunspot responsible for the odd series of strong solar flares is so big you can see it with your own eyes from Earth.
        

          In the image, "a ghostly hand appears to be emerging from the interstellar medium and reaching out into the cosmos," the NOIRLab said.
        

          The so-called super Earth — known as 55 Cancri e — is among the few rocky planets outside our solar system with a significant atmosphere.
        

          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
        

          A look back at the hallowed career of the indie "B-movie" filmmaker, known for exploitation films, monster flicks, and some bizarre movie posters.
        

          Despite losing three quarters of the blood in her body, Donna Ongsiako was able to help police find the person who almost took her life.
        

          The Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore collapsed early Tuesday, March 26 after a column was struck by a container ship that reportedly lost power, sending vehicles and people into the Patapsco River.
        

          When Tiffiney Crawford was found dead inside her van, authorities believed she might have taken her own life. But could she shoot herself twice in the head with her non-dominant hand?
        

          Comedian Bill Maher, host of the HBO series "Real Time," doesn't discriminate between right and left when aiming his barbs at tribal politics. He talks with CBS News chief election & campaign correspondent Robert Costa about gladly courting controversy, whether by mocking politicians or inviting them to his show. He also discusses his new book, "What This Comedian Said Will Shock You."
        

          Correspondent Faith Salie reports on fashion's biggest night, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute Benefit, where designs ranged from artful flowers to artfully positioned sand.
        

          A new movie dramatizes the life and music of British singer Amy Winehouse, the charismatic, multiple-Grammy-winner whose struggles with drugs and alcohol led to her death at the age of 27. Correspondent Seth Doane talks with director Sam Taylor-Johnson about capturing a complex life on film; and with actress Marisa Abela, who describes how she inhabited the role of Winehouse from the inside out.
        

          Just in time for Mother's Day, filmmaker Josh Seftel catches up with his mom, Pat, for some timely advice on the holiday.
        

          He's the most prolific fashion designer you've never heard of, and while he may not be a household name, Stan Herman has dressed millions of households, and has also designed uniforms for a multitude of companies, from TWA and Avis to McDonald's and FedEx. Correspondent Alina Cho talks with the 95-year-old Herman, who recently recounted his extraordinary career in the memoir, "Uncross Your Legs: A Life in Fashion."
        
Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
