
    
      
        3 Little-Known Drawbacks of an Amazon Prime Membership
      
    
  
If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience.


Credit Cards



Banks



Brokers



Crypto



Mortgages



Insurances



Loans



Small Business



About Us


Published on March 8, 2024


By: Lyle Daly

Writer 
KEY POINTS
Check out our pick for the best cash back credit card of 2024
If you like to shop on Amazon, you're probably either already a Prime member or considering it. Joining can certainly be a smart personal finance move. For $14.99 per month, or $139 per year, you get free one- and two-day shipping. Some orders even qualify for free same-day delivery.
Getting Amazon orders fast and for free is always nice. Amazon Prime also includes plenty of other benefits, including its Prime Video streaming service, Amazon Music for free songs, and Prime Gaming for free games.




The biggest downside of Amazon Prime is that it's on the expensive side, so you should only get it if you're going to use it regularly. But there are also drawbacks that don't get talked about as much. They're worth knowing about if you're a Prime member or thinking about signing up.
Prime members spend much more on Amazon. The average American spends $91.75 at Amazon per month, according to a survey by Upgraded Points. Prime members spend an average of $110 per month, compared to just $38 by non-members.
This isn't necessarily a bad thing. When you're paying for Amazon Prime, it makes sense to do as much of your online shopping as possible on Amazon. You can take advantage of free shipping and fast delivery times.
But fast and free shipping also makes impulse shopping much easier. When you need to pay $4.95 for shipping and wait several days to get your order, you might think harder about whether you really need it. When you can get it delivered for free, and Amazon even says you could have it today if you buy within 30 minutes, it's more tempting to just buy it.
You don't get access to all Amazon's services with a Prime membership. Some of them have their own separate memberships that you can buy with or without being a Prime member.
For example, if you like audiobooks, you may be interested in an Audible membership. There are a few options, with prices starting at $7.95 per month for unlimited listening to the Audible Plus catalog. If you want to sign up for Kindle Unlimited, that's $11.99 per month.
Amazon Prime doesn't get you a discount on either of those memberships, and they can make your monthly Amazon bill much more expensive. For those memberships in particular, consider getting a library card instead. Many libraries offer large ebook and audiobook catalogs that you can access online. I've saved thousands of dollars on ebooks and audiobooks thanks to my library card.
Amazon Prime is most useful if you live in a big city. Some of its services are only available in major metropolitan areas. For example, Amazon offers same-day grocery deliveries through Amazon Fresh. It's a benefit that I loved using while I lived in Los Angeles. But it's not available in most of the country yet.
Same-day delivery is another example. It's available in more than 90 cities. While many Prime members can take advantage of this benefit, you might not if you live in a mid-sized city or a rural area. A Prime membership can still be worth it in that situation. Just make sure you won't be missing out on any benefits you consider must-haves.
With all its benefits, Amazon Prime can easily pay for itself. I've been a member for over a decade at this point, and I love the convenience of it. Still, it helps to know about the good and the bad before you sign up.
This credit card is not just good – it’s so exceptional that our experts use it personally. It features a lengthy 0% intro APR period, a cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee! Click here to read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes.



Lyle Daly is a freelance writer who has been covering personal finance since 2016.

Share this page


We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.



Related Articles

By: Ben Gran |
Published on Jan. 26, 2024


By: Steven Porrello |
Published on Feb. 28, 2024


By: Ben Gran |
Published on Feb. 27, 2024


By: Maurie Backman |
Published on Feb. 27, 2024


By: Chris Neiger |
Published on March 2, 2024

The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters.
Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.
