Amazon Prime plans 2024: monthly, quarterly, and yearly membership price in India, benefits, Jio and Airtel offers, and more | 91mobiles.com
The Amazon Prime membership price in India has been revised. Additionally, the e-commerce platform has also introduced a new Amazon Prime Lite, which targets price-conscious users in the market. All these plans are bundled with free and fast deliveries, exclusive offers, cashback, and Prime Video access, among other things. The Amazon Prime membership plans in India now start at Rs 299, which is around 40 percent more expensive. The plans come in three tiers: monthly, quarterly, and yearly. If you’re wondering whether to sign up for Amazon Prime in India, here’s everything you need to know about the price, benefits, and offers of the membership plans.
Table of Contents
Amazon Prime India plans are currently available starting at Rs 299.
Earlier, Amazon Prime membership used to cost Rs 179 monthly and Rs 459 for the quarterly subscription while the yearly Rs 1,499 plan didn’t see any price hike.
Netflix plans 2024: Best monthly and yearly Netflix subscription plans in India price, offers, and more
Aha subscription plans 2024: price in India, offers, benefits, validity, and more
ZEE5 subscription plans 2023: Price in India, benefits, validity, and more
There are three Amazon Prime membership plans that you can choose from – monthly, quarterly, and yearly. Getting a Prime membership is vital because that’s the gateway to your access to Prime Videos and other services such as shopping, Prime music subscription, and early access to deals offered by Amazon India.
An Amazon Prime membership can be used on more than one device. In fact, Prime Video allows users to create different profiles when multiple people are using the same account. One Amazon account user can have 5 profiles, used by different people.
The monthly Amazon Prime membership plan is priced at Rs 299. The benefits of the plan include free one or two-day deliveries, access to Amazon Prime Videos, Prime Music, special discounts, and more.
Amazon Prime membership is also available in a quarterly subscription format. By making a larger payment, for a longer duration, you tend to save money (compared to the monthly plan). So, if you go for the Prime quarterly plan, you have to pay Rs 599 after every three months. And like other Prime memberships, this gets you Prime Video, Prime Music, and Prime deals with special discounts and early sale access on Amazon India, among other benefits.
And finally, you have the most popular, Rs 1,499 Amazon Prime plan that comes with a validity of one year. A membership fee of Rs 1,499 essentially means you are paying less than Rs 125 a month for access to free deliveries, music and video streaming, and exclusive offers, which is quite appealing to most consumers. This brings Amazon Prime membership price at par with Disney+ Hotstar, despite offering a lot of other benefits. And compared to Netflix, it is still a much cheaper offering.
Amazon Prime Lite is a stripped-down version of the regular Prime membership. The Lite membership comes in just one pricing tier i.e. Rs 799 for a year. There are no monthly and quarterly plans for this membership. As for the benefits, Amazon Prime Lite offers users access to ad-supported Prime Video in HD resolution in Android/iOS, free same-day delivery, 5 percent Amazon Pay cashback on making purchases through Amazon Pay ICICI Bank credit card, and early access to exclusive deals and sales. Things that are not included in this plan as compared to standard Amazon Prime membership are Prime Music, Prime Reading, and Prime Gaming.
Besides the all-in-one Prime membership, Amazon also offers a mobile-only subscription to its video streaming service Prime Video. The subscription was recently introduced in India. Check out Amazon Prime Video mobile-only plan price and benefits.
How to get Amazon Prime membership for free in India
Amazon Prime plans are complimentary with select Jio, Vi, and Airtel plans. Check out the plans:
Airtel prepaid users can enjoy Amazon Prime membership for free through their registered mobile number if they get plans starting from Rs 699. Here are the full details of the Airtel plans that offer a free Prime Video subscription.
With select Jio prepaid plans, you can get a free Amazon Prime Video subscription:
If you have taken Jio PosPaid Plus, you get a free one-year membership to Amazon Prime. Here are the plans and all the details you should know:
Just like Jio, Vi users can get one-year Amazon Prime membership for free if they have signed up for postpaid plans. Here’s how much you have to pay to get free access.
To sign up for Amazon Prime membership, you need to create or sign up using an existing Amazon account. Make payment for Prime membership to use the Prime Video and more.
Amazon Prime membership free trial in India has been discontinued for now. You will have to buy subscribe to the monthly, quarterly, and yearly plans to enjoy Amazon Prime’s benefits.
Amazon is testing Prime Video Mobile edition in India that lets you stream the streaming platform’s content on a mobile phone. The subscription is currently available for free with Airtel prepaid plans starting at Rs 129. That said, the offer can be claimed on an Airtel prepaid mobile number only once.
Amazon Prime members get access to content on Amazon Prime that can be streamed through a mobile app or website on a desktop. In addition to this, Prime members can stream music, get exclusive shopping deals and buy from a collection of unlimited reading material.
Yes, Amazon Prime Video works on desktop using the dedicated Prime Video website. Open it on any browser, log in with your Amazon ID to stream content from the platform.
Amazon Prime Video pushes its original, publicised content in the form of short-duration ads for users, every now and then.
Amazon Prime subscription ends when your Prime membership expires. In case you have not allowed the auto-debit option, users can go to Amazon.in > Accounts from the top-right menu > Manage my Prime membership and pay for the Prime membership. Your plan will be renewed.
