amazon: Amazon duped 'millions of consumers' into enrolling in Prime - FTC - The Economic Times
Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily Market Updates & Live Business News.
Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.
Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily Market Updates & Live Business News.
Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

Five reasons why AI Express employees are up in arms against the airline
500 times return in 4 years: How a Mumbai solar firm found its place in the sun
Satcom in India has two puzzles to solve before taking off
Tens of thousands of Indian gig workers are toiling at the frontiers of AI
Powders and bars are old foam, Indians are voting for liquid soaps
Stock Radar: Consumption stocks on radar! ITC eyeing breakout above 200-DMA; should you buy now?
Vyjayanthimala, Chiranjeevi conferred Padma awards
Russian nuclear forces 'always' on alert: Putin
What's new in the 4th-gen Maruti Suzuki Swift?
Maldives FM responds to derogatory remarks against...
Rafah row: US delays weapons shipments to Israel
'No relevant evidence shared'; MEA on Canada arresting ...
Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hits out at AIMIM chief
LS Election 2024 is b/w Rahul & Modi: Shah
Maruti Swift 4th Gen is here: Priced at INR 6.5 lakhs
'Take 15 sec and cast your vote; this is what Rana meant'
Trending Now
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Calculators
Top Definitions
Top Videos
Top Searched Companies
Top Prime Articles
Top Market Pages
Top Story Listing
Top Slideshow
Private Companies
Top Commodities
Follow us on:
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Reason for reporting:
Your Reason has been Reported to the admin.
Log In/Connect with:
Will be displayed
Will not be displayed
Will be displayed
Worry not. You’re just a step away.
It seems like you're already an ETPrime member with
Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits
Log out of your current logged-in account  and log in again using your ET Prime credentials  to enjoy all member benefits.

To read full story, subscribe to ET Prime
₹34 per week

                    Billed annually at 
                    ₹2499 ₹1749
Super Saver Sale - Flat 30% Off
On ET Prime Membership
Offer Exclusively For You
Save up to Rs. 700/-
ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP
Offer Exclusively For You
Get 1 Year Free
With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership
Offer Exclusively For You
Get 1 Year Free
With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership
Offer Exclusively For You
Get Flat 40% Off
Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year
Offer Exclusively For You
ET Prime at ₹ 49 for 1 month
Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year
Stay Ahead in the New Financial Year
Get flat 20% off on ETPrime




90 Days Prime access worth Rs999 unlocked for you
Exclusive Economic Times Stories, Editorials & Expert opinion across 20+ sectors
Stock analysis. Market Research. Industry Trends on 4000+ Stocks
​Get 1 Year Complimentary Subscription of TOI+ worth Rs.799/-​
Stories you might be interested in
