How To Get Amazon Prime Membership For Free
Personal Finance
Credit Monitoring
Taxes
Help for Low Credit Scores
Investing

Follow Select

Amazon is hosting its Big Spring Sale from March 20 to 25, 2024.
While you technically don't have to be a Prime member to take advantage of the sale, Prime members may have access to exclusive deals and benefit from free shipping. A standard Prime membership costs $139 per year or $14.99 per month.
While we think Amazon Prime is worth having year-round for avid online shoppers, here are some ways to skirt around paying the membership fee in time to score Big Spring Sale deals.
If you just want to sign up to take advantage of limited-time exclusive deals, a free 30-day trial is the way to go.
Those new to Amazon Prime membership, or anyone who hasn't been a member in the last 12 months, are eligible for a 30-day trial. Be sure to set a reminder for when your trial ends so you can cancel before it's up and you're charged for more time.
Note that you'll need to use a credit card to set up your trial membership.
If you're a college student, you're in luck, too, as you can sign up for a free six-month Amazon Prime Student trial. You must be enrolled in at least one course at an institution in the United States or Puerto Rico, have a working.edu email address and be able to show proof of enrollment if requested.
While the same cancellation reminder as above applies here, the six-month stretch is much more generous than just 30 days. You may even discover you want to hold onto Amazon Prime in your student years, which, in that case, would be more affordable than when you are a Prime member in "adult life." An Amazon Prime Student membership costs about half the price of a regular Amazon Prime membership, at $7.49 per month or $69 annually, and that rate is valid for four years.
Now might be a good time to apply for the Prime Visa card. Right now, get a $100 Amazon Gift Card (or more) instantly upon approval exclusively for Prime members.
While there's no minimum spending requirement needed to earn the bonus, you must be an Amazon Prime member to get the credit card — the $100 bonus will mostly take care of the first year of your Prime membership, which costs $139.
Earn unlimited 5% back at Amazon.com, Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market and on Chase Travel purchases with an eligible Prime membership, unlimited 2% back at gas stations, restaurants, and on local transit and commuting (including rideshare), 10% back or more on a rotating selection of products and categories at Amazon.com, unlimited 1% back on all other purchases
Get a $100 Amazon Gift Card (or more) instantly upon approval exclusively for Prime members
$0 (but Prime membership is required)
None
19.49% - 27.49% variable
Either $5 or 4% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater.
None
Excellent/Good
Terms apply.
Information about the Prime Visa has been collected independently by Select and have not been reviewed or provided by the issuer prior to publication; if you purchase something through Select links, we may earn a commission.
 
Some of our other favorite credit cards for shopping on Amazon include the Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card for earning travel rewards and the Citi Double Cash® Card for cash back.
Enjoy beneﬁts such as 5x on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3x on dining, select streaming services and online groceries, 2x on all other travel purchases, 1x on all other purchases, and $50 annual Chase Travel Hotel Credit, plus more.
Earn 75,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's over $900 when you redeem through Chase Travel℠.
$95
None
21.49% - 28.49% variable on purchases and balance transfers
Either $5 or 5% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater
None
Excellent/Good
Terms apply.
Read our Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card review.
 
Earn 2% on every purchase with unlimited 1% cash back when you buy, plus an additional 1% as you pay for those purchases. To earn cash back, pay at least the minimum due on time. Plus, for a limited time, earn 5% total cash back on hotel, car rentals and attractions booked on the Citi Travel℠ portal through 12/31/24
Earn $200 cash back after you spend $1,500 on purchases in the first 6 months of account opening. This bonus offer will be fulfilled as 20,000 ThankYou® Points, which can be redeemed for $200 cash back.
$0
0% for the first 18 months on balance transfers; N/A for purchases
19.24% - 29.24% variable
For balance transfers completed within 4 months of account opening, an intro balance transfer fee of 3% of each transfer ($5 minimum) applies; after that, a balance transfer fee of 5% of each transfer ($5 minimum) applies
3%
Fair/Good/Excellent
See rates and fees. Terms apply.
Read our Citi Double Cash® Card review.
Thanks to Amazon Household, you can share the Prime membership access that your spouse, sibling or parent already pays for. Hey, that's what family's for, right? When shopping during the sale, maybe you'll find a Prime Day deal they can enjoy, too.
Amazon Household just requires that two adults (ages 18 and over) each have their own Amazon account, though only one must have a Prime membership. Thanks to this benefit, household members, including teens and children, can share Amazon Prime benefits such as free one-day Prime Delivery and Prime Video.
Through Amazon Household, your Amazon account will be connected to give you access to, say, your spouse's Amazon Prime membership perks, but you'll still have your respective accounts.
If you have an EBT card or any valid qualifying government assistance documents, you're eligible for an Amazon Prime membership discount of $8 per month, bringing the total to $6.99 per month.
Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here.
At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every personal finance and shopping article is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of personal finance products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics.
Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date.
Information about the Prime Visa Card has been collected independently by Select and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer prior to publication; if you purchase something through Select links, we may earn a commission.
© 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.
