Amazon Prime Video: The Stealthy, Ominous Streaming Force
Why is this man smiling amidst today's relentless "streaming wars"? (Photo by Emma McIntyre/Getty ... [+] Images)
On the heels of Amazon’s eye-popping Q4 2019 results, it’s time to consider - really consider - what a powerful, ominous force this behemoth is in the world of media and entertainment (M&E). Amazon already plays massively in M&E, but does so relatively stealthily. So while Hollywood continues to buzz about today’s very real “streaming wars” amongst giants, Amazon typically is not the lead story (or even the secondary story). Its role in streaming’s current epic land grab is not sufficiently or properly understood.
Netflix continues to lead, of course. And, new entrant Disney+ now steals some of its thunder as a result of its highly successful launch. Meanwhile Apple TV+ entered the world under a massive spotlight at the same time, but landed with a thud. Not much talk of momentum there, although Apple just announced record quarterly revenues of $92 billion and new data suggests that some shows are faring better than thought. So Apple has time on its side to get it right.
Lost amidst all this chatter is Amazon’s lurking, daunting presence in this epic streaming battle. Let’s not forget that Amazon Prime Video is the number two player in the U.S. subscription streaming world. Whereas Netflix counts 167 million paid subscribers worldwide, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos announced that Amazon Prime (with Prime Video) now boasts over 150 million subscribers worldwide (up from 100 million one year ago) – a number that is worlds away from distant number three player Hulu (about 30 million) and the new guys who just left the gates, including Disney and Apple.
It’s not exactly an “apples to apples” comparison, of course. Amazon is a very different streaming player than all others. Netflix, Disney+ and Apple TV+ all require customers to actively sign up for individual monthly subscriptions. Amazon, on the other hand, gives Amazon Prime Video for “free” to all its Prime members who happily pay $119 annually for free shipping (after all, who doesn’t like free shipping?). Prime members passively receive Amazon Prime Video, whether they know it or not, as just another “goodie” to keep them shopping. The video service is not the end itself; it functions more like a loss-leading end cap in a retail store. That is Amazon’s special sauce and prime differentiator from Netflix, which boasts no such luxury. Netflix itself must be profitable and self-sustaining. Amazon Prime Video does not.
Amazon Prime Video essentially becomes just another marketing line item for this Seattle behemoth that seemingly now infiltrates every aspect of our lives both online and increasingly offline (Whole Foods is one notable example). Disney and Apple also drive multi-faceted business models in which streaming (movies and television) can be seen as Trojan horses to lure customers into their overall Magic Kingdoms. But even those behemoths can’t compete with Amazon’s reams of data about all of our shopping habits, likes and dislikes. Data is power, of course, and Amazon’s precise knowledge of how we spend our money is data of the highest order. Amazon knows how to use it. Our viewing habits inform Amazon about how best to optimize our shopping experiences and maximize the outflow of our dollars into its coffers.
Just a few of the combatants in today's "streaming wars." (Photo by Chesnot/Getty Images)
For these reasons, Amazon is happy to remain relatively quiet amidst all the shouting of others. It faces less overall pressure to trumpet itself, because Amazon plays by its own rules - by its own opaque metrics of success. Prime shopping and membership numbers are what “IT” is all about. Amazon reports no separate Amazon Prime Video subscriber numbers. At the same time, all other major streaming services use, and are beholden to, a very different report card – subscriber counts and viewership numbers. And all of us in the media and entertainment world (not to mention Wall Street) will constantly harangue them about those numbers throughout 2020 to make our own judgments of their relative success in the face of this hyper-competition.
Meanwhile, team Bezos can sit back, enjoy the “streaming wars” tension from the sidelines, use its boundless war chest to selectively fund award-winning content (like perennial favorite The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel), and perhaps pick up a struggling movie theater chain or two to further extend its 360-degree online/offline integration into, and relentless domination of, our daily lives.
Yes, Amazon Prime Video doesn’t spend $17 billion on content like Netflix will this year.
But Bezos could. Without even blinking ....

[To read more about today’s “streaming wars,” check out some of these recent Forbes articles Netflix’s Q4 2019 Subscriber ‘Miss’: The Storm After The Calm?, NBCU’s Best 5 Arguments Peacock Will Succeed (Amidst Netflix & Other Streaming Giants), and Room For 3 Video Subscriptions Only In A Cord-Cutting World (Here’s The Math).]

