What is Amazon Prime? | Definition from TechTarget
Amazon Prime is a subscription membership to Amazon that offers customers premium services for a yearly or monthly fee.
Amazon Prime provides discounts on shipping, a free membership to Prime Video, Twitch Prime, Amazon Drive and thirty minutes early access to Lightning Deals for a yearly subscription fee. As of 2017, Amazon Prime had approximately 80 million subscribers.
The popular benefit of Amazon Prime is free two-day shipping, but there are a number of Amazon-specific and partnered benefits. For example, the free shipping offer comes with no minimum order size and applies to millions of eligible items. In cases where a customer is not in a hurry, they can opt out of two-day shipping for a credit that can be used towards digital purchases such as ebooks and online movie rentals.
Prime Video is Amazon’s streaming video service included with membership and offers titles exclusive to Amazon. Twitch Prime gives customers a free channel subscription to a video game streamer of their choice, plus numerous discounts and free in-game content for many popular titles. Amazon Drive subscription offers unlimited storage for files and the access to those files anywhere. Prime Student is offered to college students or anyone with a .EDU email address domain at a discounted price.
As a paid loyalty rewards program, Amazon Prime has made it increasingly likely that customers will make more of their purchases through the site. As of this writing, a year-long subscription to Amazon Prime is $99. Customers can also subscribe monthly, or pay for individual services like Prime Video without the full membership.
Operational technology (OT) is a category of hardware and software that monitors and controls how physical devices perform. See More.

SD-WAN security refers to the practices, protocols and technologies protecting data and resources transmitted across ...
Net neutrality is the concept of an open, equal internet for everyone, regardless of content consumed or the device, application ...
Network scanning is a procedure for identifying active devices on a network by employing a feature or features in the network ...
Patch Tuesday is the unofficial name of Microsoft's monthly scheduled release of security fixes for the Windows operating system ...
Pegasus malware is spyware that can hack any iOS or Android device and steal a variety of data from the infected device, ...
Risk-based patch management (RBPM) is an approach to implementing patches to fix software code that prioritizes patches that ...
Strategic management is the ongoing planning, monitoring, analysis and assessment of all necessities an organization needs to ...
IT budget is the amount of money spent on an organization's information technology systems and services. It includes compensation...
Project scope is the part of project planning that involves determining and documenting a list of specific project goals, ...
Digital HR is the digital transformation of HR services and processes through the use of social, mobile, analytics and cloud (...
Employee onboarding involves all the steps needed to get a new employee successfully deployed and productive, while offboarding ...
Succession planning is the strategic process of identifying and developing internal candidates to fill key organizational roles ...
A chatbot is a software or computer program that simulates human conversation or "chatter" through text or voice interactions.
Martech (marketing technology) refers to the integration of software tools, platforms, and applications designed to streamline ...
Transactional marketing is a business strategy that focuses on single, point-of-sale transactions.
All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 1999 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

